 Feb 28, 2025 Criminal Justice, Ph.D. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Engineering and Applied Science, Ph.D. The research-based Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Engineering and Applied Science prepares students for positions in academia, industry, or consulting in a specific engineering or applied science discipline with coursework and research tailored to the student's particular interests and professional goals. Students identify a field of research at the time of admission that aligns with their career goals, previous educational experience, and existing faculty expertise. Disciplines represented include biomedical engineering, chemistry and chemical engineering, civil and environmental engineering, computer science, cybersecurity, data science, electrical engineering, industrial and systems engineering, and mechanical engineering. Specific specializations will necessarily depend on faculty research interests which, based upon current active research groups, may include such fields as biomaterials for medical devices, tissue engineering, rapid detection of microbes, cybersecurity and forensics, artificial intelligence, data science, nondestructive evaluation, radar signal processing, renewable energy systems, wireless communication and advanced antennas, structural engineering, sustainability in engineering, and environmental remediation. Coursework is likewise tailored to a student's research interest and prior academic background. Students entering directly into the Ph.D. program with a bachelor's degree will take at minimum 36 credits of coursework (12 courses: 3 Common, 9 Technical Core), of which 27 credits must be completed before taking the qualifying exam (3 semesters full-time). Students wanting a master's degree en passat must take an additional 15 credits of coursework (5 courses). All Ph.D. students shall be required to take three 3-credit, 7000-level Common Courses covering research methods and ethics, grant writing and management, and focused technical knowledge at a post-master's level. Students will also take nine 3-credit graduate-level Technical Core courses following an individualized program of study which is developed prior to admission and generally follows existing master's degree worksheets of various programs within the College of Engineering. Students will take the qualifying exam after their first (students entering with master's degrees) or third (students entering with bachelor's degrees) semester. These exams will be offered twice a year, before the start of the fall and spring semesters. The format of this exam will be decided by the Engineering and Applied Science Ph.D. Program Oversight Committee (containing members from each program represented in the Ph.D. program appointed by the Dean and chaired by the Ph.D. program coordinator) with input from the students' programs. Students will have at most two attempts. Students not passing the qualifying exam are dismissed from the Ph.D. program but should have completed the requirements for a master's degree. Students successfully passing the qualifying exam become Ph.D. candidates and are enrolled in Dissertation Research (3 credits each semester, counts as full-time enrollment). Students must complete a minimum of 15 credits of Dissertation Research (5 semesters). The final required component for graduation is the successful oral defense of a written dissertation of the student's original research. This will be adjudicated by a committee containing no fewer than four members, all of whom, including the major advisor, must hold a doctoral degree. The dissertation committee will include the primary research advisor (acting as chair), at least two University faculty members who have expertise in the field, and at least one additional member who is either external to the University or external to the College of Engineering. Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the Engineering and Applied Science Ph.D. program, students will have individualized programs of study for the required coursework. Each applicant is required to find a primary advisor prior to admission. This advisor is the primary academic contact for the student and is responsible for creating an individualized plan of study. In general, this will be the primary research advisor for the student as well, although the student may change advisor under special circumstances. This advisor is expected to evaluate each student's progress in the program at least once per academic year, with written evaluations shared with the student. Admissions decisions are made by the Engineering and Applied Science Ph.D. Program Oversight Committee with the addition of the student's primary advisor. Students wishing to change advisors after matriculation will be required to meet with the current advisor, proposed advisor, and Ph.D. program coordinator, who will together make a decision in the best interests of the student. Standards for admission are as follows: • Successful completion of an MS degree in a related STEM area with a GPA of at least 3.5; or successful completion of a BS degree in a related STEM area with a GPA of at least 3.5 • A strong statement of research aligned with the research expertise of one or more STEM-focused faculty at the University • Willingness of a STEM-focused faculty member in the University to supervise the candidate upon successful completion of the qualifying examination Goals of the Engineering and Applied Science Ph.D. Program include: 1. Preparing exceptional students for careers at academic institutions and industry 2. Offering students the knowledge and experiences required to respond to 21st century challenges across a broad field of specialties 3. Training students to conduct research and disseminate results in an ethical and professional manner 4. Providing a curriculum that develops critical and analytical thinking skills through an integrative approach of instruction, research, and evidence-based practices Upon completion of the Ph.D. in Engineering and Applied Science program, graduates will be able to: 1. Apply critical thinking skills in foundational areas of engineering and applied science. 2. Detail the current state of knowledge in an engineering or applied science specialty and apply it to solve modern problems. 3. Integrate knowledge and skills to design, conduct, analyze, and publish original research findings. 4. Illustrate effective skills in technical written and oral communication. Required Courses (51 credits) Common Courses (9 credits) ENGR 7701 - Research Methods, Writing, and Ethics ENGR 7707 - Applied Grant Writing and Management ENGR 7770 - Advanced Topics in Engineering and Applied Science Dissertation Research (15 credits) ENGR 7790 - Dissertation Research Technical Core (27 credits) Individualized program of study - consult your advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 The Doctor of Health Sciences (DHSc) program prepares professionals to be effective leaders and change agents in a variety of settings in which healthcare is taught or practiced. The program offers innovative curriculum in a flexible, online format with two short residencies to best meet student needs. Courses are facilitated by experienced faculty through an interdisciplinary and interprofessional approach. Coursework prepares students to critically analyze ongoing challenges in the health sciences, with a focus on one of two select concentrations: healthcare leadership or educational leadership. The program builds competencies to evaluate, plan, and implement solutions to these challenges in academe and clinical settings. The DHSc degree leads to a career in high-level administration, teaching, and applied research or practice, where advanced analytical and conceptual capabilities are essential to advance careers to top executive and academic appointments. Program Outcomes Upon completion of the Doctor of Health Sciences program, graduates will able to: Apply advanced knowledge in health sciences systems thinking, scholarship, pedagogy, and evidence-based practice. Develop an evidence based, innovative solution for a contemporary issue in healthcare. Demonstrate advanced communication skills by disseminating research findings to targeted audiences. Explain how Interprofessional Education (IPE) and Interprofessional Collaboration (IPC) relate to each other and why IPC is important in healthcare practice. The Doctor of Health Sciences program requires 45 credits of courses. Students must earn a term GPA of at least 3.00 to maintain matriculation in the program. Student who earn a term GPA of less than 3.00 will be terminated from the program. Additionally, course grades below B- will need to be repeated. Because of the online nature of the DHSc program, international students on the F-1 visa will not be allowed to enroll in this program. The use of B-2, ESTA, VWP, or other temporary visitors' visas for the required in-person residencies is not possible because these visas do not permit study toward degree attainment. Required Courses (45 credits)HLTH 7701 - Academia for Health ProfessionalsHLTH 7705 - Qualitative Research and Analysis for Health ProfessionalsHLTH 7706 - Quantitative Research and Analysis for Health ProfessionalsHLTH 7707 - Foundations of Scholarly Inquiry and Professional Writing in Health SciencesHLTH 7790 - Doctoral Thesis Proposal Writing and DefenseHLTH 7791 - Doctoral Thesis Data Collection and AnalysisHLTH 7792 - Doctoral Thesis Writing, Dissemination, and DefensePlus 12 additional credits in Healthcare Leadership or Educational Leadership concentration (select one concentration): Education Leadership required courses:HLTH 7710 - Principles and Theories of Teaching and Learning in Health SciencesHLTH 7711 - Curriculum Design and Development in Health SciencesHLTH 7712 - Curriculum Assessment and Evaluation in Health SciencesHLTH 7713 - Evidence-based Leadership in Health Sciences Education or Healthcare Leadership required courses:HLTH 7720 - Change Management in Healthcare OrganizationsHLTH 7721 - Quality Improvement in Healthcare OrganizationsHLTH 7722 - Population Health Management for Healthcare LeadersHLTH 7723 - Health Informatics for Healthcare Leaders Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Occupational Therapy, OTD Program Goals UNH OTD graduates will demonstrate competency in: 1: Synthesis and integration of concepts related to occupation, health, and participation, enabling them to provide holistic and person-centered interventions in diverse settings. 2: Interprofessional practice and collaboration, equipping them to engage effectively in teams and contribute to comprehensive, person-centered care. 3: Community-based practice, through the ability to design, implement, and evaluate occupation-centered interventions that promote health, well-being, and participation in diverse community settings. 4: Leadership and advocacy, enabling them to advocate for the profession, influence policy, and assume leadership roles within healthcare and community settings. Program Learning Outcomes 1. Occupation, health, and participation: Synthesis and integration of concepts related to occupation, health, and participation in providing holistic and person-centered interventions in diverse settings. 1a. Develop person-centered interventions that consider the unique needs of individuals in diverse settings. 1b. Apply theoretical knowledge to practical situations, demonstrating the ability to adapt interventions to different contexts and populations. 2. Interprofessional practice and collaboration: Interprofessional practice and collaboration, working effectively in teams to provide comprehensive, person-centered care. 2a. Demonstrate effective communication and cooperation during fieldwork experiences. 2b. Develop person-centered interventions that address inter- and intra-professional practice and collaboration. 3. Community-based practice: Community-based practice, through the ability to design, implement, and evaluate occupation-centered interventions that promote health, well-being, and participation in diverse community settings. 3a. Create community-based interventions that promote health and well-being. 3b. Conduct needs assessments to identify gaps in community services. 3c. Create programs that address community needs, considering the unique characteristics of the community. 4. Leadership and advocacy: Leadership and advocacy within healthcare and community settings. 4a. Generate advocacy projects that promote inclusive excellence. 4b. Design an occupational therapy program that advocates for the intended persons, groups, or populations. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Accounting, M.S., Accounting Analytics (STEM) Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The objective of the Master of Science in Accounting program is to provide an in-depth framework for corporate, accounting analytics, and taxation accounting inquiry, devised in structure and content from the entire scope and process of accounting-information-based economic decision-making. The existence of such a framework is intended to provide graduate accountants and professional practitioners with an opportunity to share in the development and assessment of issues of accounting interest within a decision-making context. Additionally, the Master of Science in Accounting program is designed to provide non-accountants and practitioners with the accounting credits requisite for certification. The accounting analytics concentration provides the tools for data analysis used in auditing, predictive modeling, and business operations analytics. These tools will enhance the traditional skillsets provided in the Master of Science in Accounting core. This is a cutting-edge field in the modern American marketplace. The Master of Science in Accounting with Accounting Analytics concentration is recognized as a STEM-compliant degree program (CIP 52.1302). M.S. Accounting Required Courses (24 credits)Program Objectives: Our graduates will be a. Practicing in various professional accounting fields. b. Eligible to sit for the CPA exam. c. Advancing their careers in the fields they choose. Program Learning Goals: Graduates of our MS program should be able to demonstrate: 1. Understanding of fundamental accounting concepts and analytical and technical knowledge. 2. An integrative perspective to current accounting trends and techniques. 3. Ethical reasoning ability. 4. Effective communication skills. 5. Appreciation of and exposure to an array of Corporate, Forensic and Tax Accounting concepts. Program Outcomes: 1.1 Students will demonstrate familiarity with the fundamental concepts and knowledge in their concentration areas of Corporate, Forensic, Tax, or Accounting Analytics. 1.2 Students will be able to apply knowledge from 1.1 toward analysis and analyze data using technology and information systems and using appropriate quantitative and analytical techniques. 2.1 Students will able to integrate knowledge from functional Accounting areas and formulate solutions that consider both the internal and the external environments of an organization. 2.2 Students will be able to analyze the effects of business transactions using Accounting fundamentals. 3.1 Students will able to demonstrate an understanding of social responsibility in accounting and its effects on stakeholders. 3.2 Students will able to demonstrate the ability to apply a variety of ethical principles within the Accounting practice. 4.1 Students will be able create well written documents related to Accounting topics. 5.1 Students will recognize and explain how different Accounting sub-disciplines interrelate. Accounting Analytics Concentration 6. Effectively engage in inquiry using prediction and classification algorithms (Accounting Analytics Concentration specific) 6.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 6.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. The degree is comprised of 36-39 credits, of which 7.5 credits (ACCT 6620 , ACCT 6621 , and ACCT 6619 ) are prerequisites and may be waived. Waivers for any prerequisite course require departmental approval. The corporate, forensic, and taxation concentrations require a total of 36 degree credits (30 if prerequisite courses are satisfied). The Accounting Analytics concentration requires a total of 39 degree credits (33 if prerequisite courses are satisfied), but is also STEM compliant. Students may choose only ONE concentration within the M.S. Accounting program. All students complete a basic core of courses including:ACCT 6620 - Financial Accounting for Managers (waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial Accounting (waivable)ACCT 6630 - Current Topics in Financial AccountingACCT 6631 - Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 6650 - Advanced Accounting TheoryACCT 6652 - Auditing and Assurance Services SeminarACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisACCT 6695 - Independent Study I (Capstone Course; ACCT 6615 is required for Taxation Concentration)Concentration in Accounting Analytics (15 credits) Note: this concentration is STEM approved Students who concentrate in Accounting Analytics will complete the following additional courses (substitutions require departmental approval):BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsACCT 6651 - Accounting Analytics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Accounting, M.S., Corporate Track Concentration Coordinator: James N. Mohs, D.B.A.; Michael J. Rolleri, M.B.A., C.P.A. The objective of the Master of Science in Accounting program is to provide an in-depth framework for artificial intelligence (AI)/analytics, corporate, forensic, and taxation accounting inquiry, devised in structure and content from the entire scope and process of accounting-information-based economic decision-making. The existence of such a framework is intended to provide graduate accountants and professional practitioners with an opportunity to share in the development and assessment of issues of accounting interest within a decision-making context. Additionally, the Master of Science in Accounting program is designed to provide non-accountants and practitioners with the accounting credits requisite for certification. M.S. Accounting Required Courses (24 credits)Program Objectives: Our graduates will be a. Practicing in various professional accounting fields. b. Eligible to sit for the CPA exam. c. Advancing their careers in the fields they choose. Program Learning Goals: Graduates of our MS program should be able to demonstrate: 1. Understanding of fundamental accounting concepts and analytical and technical knowledge. 2. An integrative perspective to current accounting trends and techniques. 3. Ethical reasoning ability. 4. Effective communication skills. 5. Appreciation of and exposure to an array of Corporate, Forensic and Tax Accounting concepts. Program Outcomes: 1.1 Students will demonstrate familiarity with the fundamental concepts and knowledge in their concentration areas of Corporate, Forensic, Tax, or Accounting Analytics. 1.2 Students will be able to apply knowledge from 1.1 toward analysis and analyze data using technology and information systems and using appropriate quantitative and analytical techniques. 2.1 Students will able to integrate knowledge from functional Accounting areas and formulate solutions that consider both the internal and the external environments of an organization. 2.2 Students will be able to analyze the effects of business transactions using Accounting fundamentals. 3.1 Students will able to demonstrate an understanding of social responsibility in accounting and its effects on stakeholders. 3.2 Students will able to demonstrate the ability to apply a variety of ethical principles within the Accounting practice. 4.1 Students will be able create well written documents related to Accounting topics. 5.1 Students will recognize and explain how different Accounting sub-disciplines interrelate. Accounting Analytics Concentration 6. Effectively engage in inquiry using prediction and classification algorithms (Accounting Analytics Concentration specific) 6.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 6.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. The degree is comprised of 36-39 credits, of which 7.5 credits (ACCT 6620 , ACCT 6621 , and ACCT 6619 ) are prerequisites and may be waived. Waivers for any prerequisite course require departmental approval. The corporate, forensic, and taxation concentrations require a total of 36 degree credits (30 if prerequisite courses are satisfied). The Accounting Analytics concentration requires a total of 39 degree credits (33 if prerequisite courses are satisfied), but is also STEM compliant. Students may choose only ONE concentration within the M.S. Accounting program. All students complete a basic core of courses including:ACCT 6620 - Financial Accounting for Managers (waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial Accounting (waivable)ACCT 6630 - Current Topics in Financial AccountingACCT 6631 - Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 6650 - Advanced Accounting TheoryACCT 6652 - Auditing and Assurance Services SeminarACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisACCT 6695 - Independent Study I (Capstone Course; ACCT 6615 is required for Taxation Concentration)Concentration in Corporate Track (12 credits)Students who concentrate in the Corporate Track will complete the following additional courses (substitutions require departmental approval):ACCT 6636 - Analysis of Federal Income Taxation IIACCT 6637 - International Accounting and TaxationACCT 6641 - Accounting Information SystemsACCT 6661 - Managerial Accounting Seminar Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Accounting, M.S., Forensic Track Concentration The objective of the Master of Science in Accounting program is to provide an in-depth framework for artificial intelligence (AI)/analytics, corporate, forensic, and taxation accounting inquiry, devised in structure and content from the entire scope and process of accounting-information-based economic decision-making. The existence of such a framework is intended to provide graduate accountants and professional practitioners with an opportunity to share in the development and assessment of issues of accounting interest within a decision-making context. Additionally, the Master of Science in Accounting program is designed to provide non-accountants and practitioners with the accounting credits requisite for certification. M.S. Accounting Required Courses (24 credits)Program Objectives: Our graduates will be a. Practicing in various professional accounting fields. b. Eligible to sit for the CPA exam. c. Advancing their careers in the fields they choose. Program Learning Goals: Graduates of our MS program should be able to demonstrate: 1. Understanding of fundamental accounting concepts and analytical and technical knowledge. 2. An integrative perspective to current accounting trends and techniques. 3. Ethical reasoning ability. 4. Effective communication skills. 5. Appreciation of and exposure to an array of Corporate, Forensic and Tax Accounting concepts. Program Outcomes: 1.1 Students will demonstrate familiarity with the fundamental concepts and knowledge in their concentration areas of Corporate, Forensic, Tax, or Accounting Analytics. 1.2 Students will be able to apply knowledge from 1.1 toward analysis and analyze data using technology and information systems and using appropriate quantitative and analytical techniques. 2.1 Students will able to integrate knowledge from functional Accounting areas and formulate solutions that consider both the internal and the external environments of an organization. 2.2 Students will be able to analyze the effects of business transactions using Accounting fundamentals. 3.1 Students will able to demonstrate an understanding of social responsibility in accounting and its effects on stakeholders. 3.2 Students will able to demonstrate the ability to apply a variety of ethical principles within the Accounting practice. 4.1 Students will be able create well written documents related to Accounting topics. 5.1 Students will recognize and explain how different Accounting sub-disciplines interrelate. Accounting Analytics Concentration 6. Effectively engage in inquiry using prediction and classification algorithms (Accounting Analytics Concentration specific) 6.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 6.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. The degree is comprised of 36-39 credits, of which 7.5 credits (ACCT 6620 , ACCT 6621 , and ACCT 6619 ) are prerequisites and may be waived. Waivers for any prerequisite course require departmental approval. The corporate, forensic, and taxation concentrations require a total of 36 degree credits (30 if prerequisite courses are satisfied). The Accounting Analytics concentration requires a total of 39 degree credits (33 if prerequisite courses are satisfied), but is also STEM compliant. Students may choose only ONE concentration within the M.S. Accounting program. All students complete a basic core of courses including:ACCT 6620 - Financial Accounting for Managers (waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial Accounting (waivable)ACCT 6630 - Current Topics in Financial AccountingACCT 6631 - Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 6650 - Advanced Accounting TheoryACCT 6652 - Auditing and Assurance Services SeminarACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisACCT 6695 - Independent Study I (Capstone Course; ACCT 6615 is required for Taxation Concentration)Concentration in Forensic Track (12 credits)Students who concentrate in the Forensic Track will complete the following additional courses (substitutions require departmental approval):ACCT 6655 - Forensic and Investigative AccountingACCT 6656 - Valuation TheoryACCT 6662 - Fraud Examination Plus one of the following:LSTD 6640 - Litigation and Ethics for Forensic AccountingLSTD 6642 - Legal Issues in Litigation Support and Forensic AccountingLSTD 6643 - Fraud Schemes and the LawBUSA 6598 - Business InternshipINVS 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation ProceduresINVS 6601 - White Collar Crime AnalyticsINVS 6611 - Contemporary Topics in Cybercrime Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Accounting, M.S., Taxation Track Concentration Coordinator: James N. Mohs, D.B.A.; Michael J. Rolleri, M.B.A., C.P.A. The objective of the Master of Science in Accounting program is to provide an in-depth framework for artificial intelligence (AI)/analytics, corporate, forensic, and taxation accounting inquiry, devised in structure and content from the entire scope and process of accounting-information-based economic decision-making. The existence of such a framework is intended to provide graduate accountants and professional practitioners with an opportunity to share in the development and assessment of issues of accounting interest within a decision-making context. Additionally, the Master of Science in Accounting program is designed to provide non-accountants and practitioners with the accounting credits requisite for certification. M.S. Accounting Required Courses (24 credits)Program Objectives: Our graduates will be a. Practicing in various professional accounting fields. b. Eligible to sit for the CPA exam. c. Advancing their careers in the fields they choose. Program Learning Goals: Graduates of our MS program should be able to demonstrate: 1. Understanding of fundamental accounting concepts and analytical and technical knowledge. 2. An integrative perspective to current accounting trends and techniques. 3. Ethical reasoning ability. 4. Effective communication skills. 5. Appreciation of and exposure to an array of Corporate, Forensic and Tax Accounting concepts. Program Outcomes: 1.1 Students will demonstrate familiarity with the fundamental concepts and knowledge in their concentration areas of Corporate, Forensic, Tax, or Accounting Analytics. 1.2 Students will be able to apply knowledge from 1.1 toward analysis and analyze data using technology and information systems and using appropriate quantitative and analytical techniques. 2.1 Students will able to integrate knowledge from functional Accounting areas and formulate solutions that consider both the internal and the external environments of an organization. 2.2 Students will be able to analyze the effects of business transactions using Accounting fundamentals. 3.1 Students will able to demonstrate an understanding of social responsibility in accounting and its effects on stakeholders. 3.2 Students will able to demonstrate the ability to apply a variety of ethical principles within the Accounting practice. 4.1 Students will be able create well written documents related to Accounting topics. 5.1 Students will recognize and explain how different Accounting sub-disciplines interrelate. Accounting Analytics Concentration 6. Effectively engage in inquiry using prediction and classification algorithms (Accounting Analytics Concentration specific) 6.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 6.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. The degree is comprised of 36-39 credits, of which 7.5 credits (ACCT 6620 , ACCT 6621 , and ACCT 6619 ) are prerequisites and may be waived. Waivers for any prerequisite course require departmental approval. The corporate, forensic, and taxation concentrations require a total of 36 degree credits (30 if prerequisite courses are satisfied). The Accounting Analytics concentration requires a total of 39 degree credits (33 if prerequisite courses are satisfied), but is also STEM compliant. Students may choose only ONE concentration within the M.S. Accounting program. All students complete a basic core of courses including:ACCT 6620 - Financial Accounting for Managers (waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial Accounting (waivable)ACCT 6630 - Current Topics in Financial AccountingACCT 6631 - Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 6650 - Advanced Accounting TheoryACCT 6652 - Auditing and Assurance Services SeminarACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisACCT 6695 - Independent Study I (Capstone Course; ACCT 6615 is required for Taxation Concentration)Concentration in Taxation Track (12 credits)Students who concentrate in the Taxation Track will complete the following additional courses (substitutions require departmental approval):ACCT 6601 - Fundamentals of Federal Income TaxationACCT 6602 - Taxation of Property TransactionsACCT 6604 - Taxation of Corporations and ShareholdersACCT 6605 - Partnership and Limited Liability Company Income Taxation Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Anti-Money Laundering and Compliance Investigations, M.S. The Master of Science in Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Compliance investigations combines the expertise of the investigations program with leading experts in the deterrence and investigation of money laundering. The program integrates the legal, regulatory and prosecution issues with the investigative knowledge and skills for investigating money laundering and compliance failures; follow the money (or in today's world, the crypto assets). This program requires the completion of 36 credits. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Identify money laundering typologies. Identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. Prepare SARS and other reports. Analyze the legal and regulatory requirements. Required Courses (27 credits)INVS 6603 - Contemporary Topics in Money LaunderingINVS 6613 - Banking Secrecy Act and Compliance InvestigationsINVS 6627 - Identity Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV WorldINVS 6650 - Regulation and Occupational FraudINVS 6654 - Blockchain Technology and InvestigationsINVS 6703 - Crypto Asset InvestigationsINVS 6704 - Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsElective Courses (9 credits) Select 6 credits of graduate-level courses with prefix INVS. Select a 3 credit graduate-level course with prefix INVS, CJST, or NSEC. Waivers for Related External CertificationsUp to 6 credits of coursework may be waived for those with ACAMS/Manchester CF/Digital Currency external certifications upon review of the program coordinator. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Biomedical Engineering, M.S. Coordinator: Kagya Amoako, Assistant Professor, PhD., University of Michigan STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The master of science in biomedical engineering prepares students for positions in biomedical engineering and continued education in biomedical engineering. It addresses the improvement of human health through a multi-disciplinary approach, where integration of concepts from engineering and mathematics with those in the life sciences provide directed technologies for the advancement of health care. Students enrolled in the program will address unmet medical needs using knowledge of engineering, biology, chemistry, mathematics, etc. They will take measurements on and interpret data from living systems, address the problems associated with the interaction between living and non-living materials and systems, work on team projects, and communicate their work orally and in writing. Graduates of this program will be able to evaluate biomedical engineering literature to identify, analyze, and assess a medical need, design solutions to these problems using multidisciplinary approach, and manage biomedical engineering projects. Program Outcomes Apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering to biomedical engineering problems. Use the biomedical engineering literature to identify, analyze, and evaluate a medical need, and propose viable solutions. Communicate theory and research pertaining to biomedical engineering through both oral and written means. Interpret data from living systems, addressing the problems associated with the interaction between living and non-living materials and systems. A minimum of 30 credits must be completed to earn the master of science degree in biomedical engineering, including a substantial project as outlined below. Admission Policy Applicants to the master of science in biomedical engineering program must have earned or are close to earning a Bachelor's degree in engineering, physics, biology, chemistry, or a related field. GPA requirement: Admission will usually require a 3.0 grade point average on a 4.0 scale. This is a guideline and is not a strict requirement. Transcripts: Applicants will submit an official transcript displaying the seal of the institution and signed by the registrar. Letters of recommendation: No more than three letters of recommendations are required. Students must submit only three letters written by those best suited to comment on the student's academic and/or research skills. Personal Statement: Students must submit a personal statement about their background including life experiences, why they want to pursue a master's degree in biomedical engineering, and what are their personal aspirations and career goals. TOEFL/IELTS: A minimum overall score of 75 internet-based format TOEFL score or a minimum overall score of 6 internet-based-format IELTS. Applicants who have earned or will earn a Bachelor's degree will be exempt from submitting a TOEFL/IELTS score if the degree was earned from an institution where the language of instruction is English. GRE: The GRE is NOT required for the master's program. Before enrolling, students are generally required to have completed undergraduate courses in cell biology, human anatomy and physiology, biochemistry, calculus I, II, and III, differential equations, a course in basic electronic circuits, two courses in either mechanics, fluid mechanics, dynamics or thermodynamics, and introductory level programming. Applicants with strong academic or professional experience but without the necessary background for enrolling in some of the required courses may be asked to complete additional courses. Required Courses (18 credits)BIOL 6605 - BiostatisticsBIOM 6601 - Biomedical Engineering SeminarBIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersBIOM 6630 - Biosensors and Instrumentation with LaboratoryINDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsMECH 6602 - Mechanical Engineering AnalysisElective Courses (12-13 credits)Choose four courses from the list belowBIOM 6615 - Biomaterials II: Design and Applications of BiomaterialsBIOM 6620 - Tissue EngineeringBIOM 6635 - BioanalyticsBIOM 6640 - Biomedical OpticsBIOM 6650 - Medical Imaging SystemsBIOM 6690 - Research ProjectBIOM 6693 - Biomedical Engineering InternshipBIOM 6697 - Thesis IBIOM 6698 - Thesis IICMBI 6617 - Cell Culture Techniques with LaboratoryCMBI 6636 - ImmunologyELEC 6634 - Digital Signal Processing IELEC 6635 - Digital Signal Processing IIELEC 6653 - Digital Image ProcessingMECH 6605 - Finite Element Methods in EngineeringMECH 6630 - Advanced Fluid MechanicsMECH 6645 - Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat TransferPHYS 6620 - Introduction to NanobiotechnologyProject RequirementEach student must complete a substantial project. There are three different ways to satisfy the project requirement (credits from a project course will count as elective credit): 1. Project through a project-based course (this course will count as an elective either with biomaterials, medical imaging, or with biomechanics content). In this option, a student would complete a substantial and extensive amount of work, as would be required in options 2 and 3 below. If a student does not complete project requirement in the course, they will need to enroll in BIOM 6690 and complete the project requirement in BIOM 6690. A student will be completing 3 credits whether they complete the project requirement during the project-based course or through BIOM 6690. This option offers a student the advantage of working on a project in a chosen focus area under the guidance of faculty in that specialty. Listed below are the set of special project-based courses from which a student will make a selection. BIOM 6615 - Biomaterials II: Design and Applications of Biomaterials BIOM 6620 - Tissue Engineering BIOM 6650 - Medical Imaging Systems ELEC 6653 - Digital Image Processing 2. BIOM 6690 Research Project (this course will count as an elective). Student must find an advisor, prepare a project proposal and obtain written approval for the project prior to registration. This option offers an advantage to students who may choose to explore areas outside the curriculum. 3. BIOM 6697 Thesis I and BIOM 6697 Thesis II (these courses will count as electives with biomaterials, imaging, or biomechanics content). Students who plan to complete a thesis should find a thesis advisor in their first or second semester, prepare a thesis proposal, and obtain written approval for the thesis prior to registration. For the thesis option, both BIOM 6697 and BIOM 6698 must be completed. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Up to three credits of graduate internship may be used as an elective for this concentration:BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipECON 6693 - InternshipBUSA 6598 - Business Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Select six credits of the following:MGMT 6815 - Strategic Management and Governance of Information AssetsMGMT 6825 - Contemporary Issues in CybersecurityMGMT 6657 - Risk ManagementINVS 6613 - Banking Secrecy Act and Compliance InvestigationsINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV WorldINVS 6630 - Investigating Financial CrimesINVS 6652 - Network Security, Data Protection, and Telecommunications Or a combination of the following INVS 1-credit courses for 3 or 6 credits:INVS 6500 - Fundamentals of Anti-Money LaunderingINVS 6505 - Trade-Based Money LaunderingINVS 6506 - Economic SanctionsINVS 6507 - Correspondent BankingINVS 6508 - Capital MarketsINVS 6509 - Private BankingINVS 6510 - Corruption and Money Laundering Up to three credits of graduate internship may be used as an elective for this concentrationMGMT 6694 - Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Select six credits of the following:ACCT 6651 - Accounting AnalyticsBANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementBANL 6550 - Managing Quality in the Supply ChainBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6605 - Applied EconometricsBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementBANL 6670 - Special TopicsEGRM 6647 - Supply Chain Analytics and ResilienceFINC 6600 - Introduction to Financial AnalyticsFINC 6605 - Financial EconometricsFINC 6650 - Data Analysis: Trading Room ApplicationsMKTG 6627 - Database MarketingMKTG 6631 - Digital Marketing StrategyMKTG 6640 - Marketing AnalyticsQANL 6670 - Selected TopicsSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsUp to three credits of graduate internship may be used as an elective for this concentration:BUSA 6598 - Business InternshipBANL 6693 - Business Analytics Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php This concentration provides students with the ability to use technical financial metrics to analyze the viability of firms and forecast the firm's probable performance in the market. It provides the tools necessary to collect, identify, and understand patterns that enable a firm to achieve competitive advantage and financial viability. This concentration is STEM approved and will require no fewer than 40 credits to graduate. Select nine credits of the following:ACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingFINC 6611 - Equity Market Valuation and AnalysisFINC 6612 - Applied Portfolio ManagementFINC 6613 - Derivative Market Analysis and Trading TechniquesFINC 6620 - Fixed Income AnalysisFINC 6625 - Advanced Capital Market IssuesFINC 6630 - Corporate Financial Analysis and ApplicationsFINC 6631 - Management of Financial ServicesFINC 6632 - International Financial ManagementFINC 6635 - Advanced Corporate Financial Management IssuesFINC 6640 - Real Estate AnalysisFINC 6645 - Equity Valuation ResearchFINC 6650 - Data Analysis: Trading Room ApplicationsFINC 6654 - Introduction to Financial Wealth ManagementFINC 6656 - Wealth ManagementFINC 6670 - Selected TopicsFINC 6681 - CFA Exam ReviewFINC 6693 - InternshipFINC 6695 - Independent Study IBUSA 6598 - Business InternshipUp to three credits of graduate internship may be used as an elective for this concentration. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The study of global supply chain practices that integrate efficiency, quality, and risk mitigation considerations into global supply decisions that are informed by data. This concentration is STEM approved and will require no fewer than 40 credits to graduate. Select three credits of the following:ACCT 6651 - Accounting AnalyticsBANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6605 - Applied EconometricsBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceBANL 6670 - Special TopicsECON 6635 - Business ForecastingEGRM 6647 - Supply Chain Analytics and ResilienceMKTG 6640 - Marketing Analytics Up to three credits of graduate internship may be used as an elective for this concentration:BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipBUSA 6598 - Business Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php This concentration provides students with the technical skills to use digital analytics and managerial prowess to strategically implement marketing decisions related to business operations. It provides the tools necessary to collect, identify, and understand patterns that allow the organization to make informed, data-driven decisions regarding the consumer economy. These skills are especially relevant with the continued growth of Big Data and increasingly sophisticated computing techniques used to mine it. With a specific focus on the application of marketing data analysis, the program features insights in consumer behavior, Big Data, and analytics applied to real-world marketing challenges across various industries. The R-programming language is an important part of the concentration's design. This concentration is STEM approved and will require no fewer than 40 credits to graduate. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Select nine credits of the following:BANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementFINC 6625 - Advanced Capital Market IssuesMGMT 6625 - Knowledge ManagementMGMT 6628 - Building a Consulting BusinessMGMT 6650 - EntrepreneurshipMGMT 6656 - Integrating the EnterpriseMGMT 6657 - Risk ManagementMGMT 6662 - Organization TheoryMGMT 6664 - Organizational EffectivenessMGMT 6686 - Global Business SimulationMKTG 6631 - Digital Marketing StrategyMKTG 6638 - Competitive Marketing StrategyMKTG 6651 - International MarketingSMGT 6610 - Strategic Sport ManagementSMGT 6620 - Professional Sport Management Up to three credits of graduate internship may be used as an elective for this concentration.MGMT 6694 - InternshipBUSA 6598 - Business Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Business Analytics, M.S., General (STEM) Concentration M.S. Business Analytics Required Courses (21 credits)STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Business Analytics program integrates knowledge of business domains with extensive knowledge of data management, machine learning, predictive analytics, and data visualization. The broad and intensive curriculum across a range of business disciplines features the latest analytics methods of translating data into relevant information for decision-makers. The program emphasizes business data as a valuable asset and shows methods to turn data into actionable insights to enhance operational efficiency, customer value, and profitability. The program uses a hands-on approach with applications in traditional business areas as well as Internet enabled new mediums. Description of Concentrations There are four concentrations in the MS Business Analytics Program: General Global Supply Chain Analytics Marketing Analytics Hospitality and Service Analytics Program Outcomes 1.1: Rationalize the use of appropriate data sources for a specific operational function and/or research question. 1.2: Prepare data from public and commercial data sources in order to address specific operational questions. 2.1: Develop a testable research question that addresses a business/organizational need. 2.2: Implement domain studies using predictive analytic techniques to enhance decision making for an organization. 3.1: Formulate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical format online. 3.2: Integrate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical visual format. There are concentration specific outcomes: Global Supply Chain Analytics: Appraise the efficiency of a supply chain for quality improvement. Develop decision-making metrics for supply chain management. Marketing Analytics : Develop an analytics algorithm to evaluate a particular marketing question relevant to the student's capstone project. Evaluate the efficiency of the analytics algorithm used as part of the student's capstone project. Hospitality and Service Analytics: Evaluate hospitality and service opportunities using analytical tools. This program requires 30 graduate credits, including 21 core credits plus 9 concentration credits.BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6101 - Lab BANL 6100BANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceECON 6635 - Business Forecasting Capstone Experience:BANL 6900 - Business Analytics Capstoneor (with permission of Program Coordinator)BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipGeneral Concentration (9 credits)Select three courses from the following:ACCT 6651 - Accounting AnalyticsBANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6440 - Survey MethodsBANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementBANL 6525 - Global Procurement ManagementBANL 6550 - Managing Quality in the Supply ChainBANL 6605 - Applied EconometricsBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementBANL 6630 - Global Logistics and Distribution ManagementBANL 6650 - Hospitality and Service AnalyticsBANL 6670 - Special TopicsBANL 6695 - Independent StudyBANL 6710 - Digital Story Telling with TableauBUSA 6598 - Business InternshipECON 6644 - Managing in a Global EconomyECON 6670 - Selected TopicsHTMG 6610 - International TourismHTMG 6620 - Tourism, Resort, and Event ManagementHTMG 6635 - Special Events Management in Hospitality and TourismHTMG 6640 - Global Sustainable Tourism ManagementHTMG 6680 - Resort Operations and ManagementINTB 6643 - International BusinessMGMT 6625 - Knowledge ManagementMGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingMKTG 6610 - Marketing Analysis and Customer ValueMKTG 6627 - Database MarketingMKTG 6629 - Social Media MarketingMKTG 6631 - Digital Marketing StrategyMKTG 6639 - Marketing Research and Information SystemsMKTG 6640 - Marketing AnalyticsQANL 6675 - Multivariate AnalysisSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsOr any course in an existing M.S. Business Analytics concentration (with the required prerequisite courses) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Business Analytics, M.S., Global Supply Chain Analytics (STEM) Concentration M.S. Business Analytics Required Courses (21 credits)STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Business Analytics program integrates knowledge of business domains with extensive knowledge of data management, machine learning, predictive analytics, and data visualization. The broad and intensive curriculum across a range of business disciplines features the latest analytics methods of translating data into relevant information for decision-makers. The program emphasizes business data as a valuable asset and shows methods to turn data into actionable insights to enhance operational efficiency, customer value, and profitability. The program uses a hands-on approach with applications in traditional business areas as well as Internet enabled new mediums. Description of Concentrations There are four concentrations in the MS Business Analytics Program: General Global Supply Chain Analytics Marketing Analytics Hospitality and Service Analytics Program Outcomes 1.1: Rationalize the use of appropriate data sources for a specific operational function and/or research question. 1.2: Prepare data from public and commercial data sources in order to address specific operational questions. 2.1: Develop a testable research question that addresses a business/organizational need. 2.2: Implement domain studies using predictive analytic techniques to enhance decision making for an organization. 3.1: Formulate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical format online. 3.2: Integrate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical visual format. There are concentration specific outcomes: Global Supply Chain Analytics: Appraise the efficiency of a supply chain for quality improvement. Develop decision-making metrics for supply chain management. Marketing Analytics : Develop an analytics algorithm to evaluate a particular marketing question relevant to the student's capstone project. Evaluate the efficiency of the analytics algorithm used as part of the student's capstone project. Hospitality and Service Analytics: Evaluate hospitality and service opportunities using analytical tools. This program requires 30 graduate credits, including 21 core credits plus 9 concentration credits.BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6101 - Lab BANL 6100BANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceECON 6635 - Business Forecasting Capstone Experience:BANL 6900 - Business Analytics Capstoneor (with permission of Program Coordinator)BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipGlobal Supply Chain Analytics Concentration (9 credits)BANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementBANL 6525 - Global Procurement ManagementBANL 6550 - Managing Quality in the Supply ChainBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementBANL 6630 - Global Logistics and Distribution ManagementBUSA 6598 - Business Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Business Analytics, M.S., Hospitality and Service Analytics (STEM) Concentration M.S. Business Analytics Required Courses (21 credits)STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Business Analytics program integrates knowledge of business domains with extensive knowledge of data management, machine learning, predictive analytics, and data visualization. The broad and intensive curriculum across a range of business disciplines features the latest analytics methods of translating data into relevant information for decision-makers. The program emphasizes business data as a valuable asset and shows methods to turn data into actionable insights to enhance operational efficiency, customer value, and profitability. The program uses a hands-on approach with applications in traditional business areas as well as Internet enabled new mediums. Description of Concentrations There are four concentrations in the MS Business Analytics Program: General Global Supply Chain Analytics Marketing Analytics Hospitality and Service Analytics Program Outcomes 1.1: Rationalize the use of appropriate data sources for a specific operational function and/or research question. 1.2: Prepare data from public and commercial data sources in order to address specific operational questions. 2.1: Develop a testable research question that addresses a business/organizational need. 2.2: Implement domain studies using predictive analytic techniques to enhance decision making for an organization. 3.1: Formulate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical format online. 3.2: Integrate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical visual format. There are concentration specific outcomes: Global Supply Chain Analytics: Appraise the efficiency of a supply chain for quality improvement. Develop decision-making metrics for supply chain management. Marketing Analytics : Develop an analytics algorithm to evaluate a particular marketing question relevant to the student's capstone project. Evaluate the efficiency of the analytics algorithm used as part of the student's capstone project. Hospitality and Service Analytics: Evaluate hospitality and service opportunities using analytical tools. This program requires 30 graduate credits, including 21 core credits plus 9 concentration credits.BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6101 - Lab BANL 6100BANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceECON 6635 - Business Forecasting Capstone Experience:BANL 6900 - Business Analytics Capstoneor (with permission of Program Coordinator)BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipHospitality and Service Analytics Concentration (9 credits)BANL 6650 - Hospitality and Service AnalyticsPlus two courses from the following:HTMG 6610 - International TourismHTMG 6620 - Tourism, Resort, and Event ManagementHTMG 6635 - Special Events Management in Hospitality and TourismHTMG 6640 - Global Sustainable Tourism ManagementHTMG 6680 - Resort Operations and ManagementBUSA 6598 - Business Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Business Analytics, M.S., Marketing Analytics (STEM) Concentration M.S. Business Analytics Required Courses (21 credits)STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Business Analytics program integrates knowledge of business domains with extensive knowledge of data management, machine learning, predictive analytics, and data visualization. The broad and intensive curriculum across a range of business disciplines features the latest analytics methods of translating data into relevant information for decision-makers. The program emphasizes business data as a valuable asset and shows methods to turn data into actionable insights to enhance operational efficiency, customer value, and profitability. The program uses a hands-on approach with applications in traditional business areas as well as Internet enabled new mediums. Description of Concentrations There are four concentrations in the MS Business Analytics Program: General Global Supply Chain Analytics Marketing Analytics Hospitality and Service Analytics Program Outcomes 1.1: Rationalize the use of appropriate data sources for a specific operational function and/or research question. 1.2: Prepare data from public and commercial data sources in order to address specific operational questions. 2.1: Develop a testable research question that addresses a business/organizational need. 2.2: Implement domain studies using predictive analytic techniques to enhance decision making for an organization. 3.1: Formulate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical format online. 3.2: Integrate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical visual format. There are concentration specific outcomes: Global Supply Chain Analytics: Appraise the efficiency of a supply chain for quality improvement. Develop decision-making metrics for supply chain management. Marketing Analytics : Develop an analytics algorithm to evaluate a particular marketing question relevant to the student's capstone project. Evaluate the efficiency of the analytics algorithm used as part of the student's capstone project. Hospitality and Service Analytics: Evaluate hospitality and service opportunities using analytical tools. This program requires 30 graduate credits, including 21 core credits plus 9 concentration credits.BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6101 - Lab BANL 6100BANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceECON 6635 - Business Forecasting Capstone Experience:BANL 6900 - Business Analytics Capstoneor (with permission of Program Coordinator)BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipMarketing Analytics Concentration (9 credits)MKTG 6610 - Marketing Analysis and Customer ValueMKTG 6640 - Marketing AnalyticsPlus one course from the following:BANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementBANL 6440 - Survey MethodsBUSA 6598 - Business InternshipMKTG 6627 - Database MarketingMKTG 6629 - Social Media MarketingMKTG 6631 - Digital Marketing StrategyMKTG 6639 - Marketing Research and Information SystemsQANL 6675 - Multivariate Analysis Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Cellular and Molecular Biology, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes 1. Students will exhibit mastery of advanced cell and molecular biology content 2. Students will be able to critically analyze primary literature from cell and molecular biology journals 3. Students will employ appropriate experimental design and formulate testable hypothesis 4. Students will effectively communicate scientific principles and data verbally or in writing 5. Students will be able to utilize basic and advanced laboratory techniques, computational tools and equipment. A minimum of 38 to 39 credit hours of graduate work must be completed to earn the Master of Science degree in Cellular and Molecular Biology. Candidates for the program must have a background in biology, chemistry or a related field with specific course work that includes genetics or molecular biology, general and organic chemistry and biochemistry. Students choosing a non-thesis option are required to take a minimum of 12 credit hours of laboratory course work in addition to a written comprehensive exam. The purpose of the comprehensive examination is to assess the candidate's understanding of their course work and to evaluate the ability of the candidate to synthesize research and theory in the field of cellular and molecular biology and to present this information in an effective written format. After a minimum of 18 credits of graduate course work, non-thesis students with a minimum GPA of 3.0 may elect 3 credit hours of research, consisting of CMBI 6690 - Research Project, or CMBI 6688 - Internship I, upon the approval of the program coordinator. Thesis Option (38 credits minimum)First Fall term:CMBI 6606 - Molecular Genetics/Genomics CMBI 6617 - Cell Culture Techniques with LaboratoryorElective (from list of electives below) CMBI 6608 - Evaluation of Scientific LiteratureorENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsFirst Spring term:CMBI 6603 - Nucleic Acid BiochemistryCMBI 6613 - Molecular Biology of Nucleic Acids with Laboratory BIOL 6605 - BiostatisticsorCMBI 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesorCMBI 6622 - Database Systems for Biological ResearchorElective (from list of electives below) CMBI 7695 - Independent Study for Thesis PreparationSecond Fall term:CMBI 6601 - Protein Biochemistry and Enzymology CMBI 6611 - Molecular Biology of Proteins with LaboratoryOrElective (from list of electives below) CMBI 7698 - Thesis ISecond Spring term:CMBI 7607 - Advanced Topics in Cellular BiologyCMBI 7699 - Thesis IINon-Thesis Option (39 credits minimum):First Fall term:CMBI 6606 - Molecular Genetics/Genomics CMBI 6617 - Cell Culture Techniques with LaboratoryorElective (from list of electives below) CMBI 6608 - Evaluation of Scientific LiteratureorENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsFirst Spring term:CMBI 6603 - Nucleic Acid BiochemistryCMBI 6613 - Molecular Biology of Nucleic Acids with Laboratory CMBI 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesorCMBI 6622 - Database Systems for Biological ResearchorBIOL 6605 - BiostatisticsorElective (from list of electives below)Second Fall term:CMBI 6601 - Protein Biochemistry and EnzymologyCMBI 6611 - Molecular Biology of Proteins with LaboratoryElective (from list of electives below)Second Spring term:CMBI 7607 - Advanced Topics in Cellular Biology BIOL 6605 - BiostatisticsorCMBI 6622 - Database Systems for Biological ResearchorCMBI 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesorElective (from list of electives below) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Chemical Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php. Program Outcomes Students will: 1. Develop appropriate experimentation or computer simulation in a master's level project. 2. Interpret data to draw conclusions to enable an informed engineering judgement. 3. Apply mathematics, science, and engineering concepts to solve chemical engineering problems. 4. Demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills to both experts in the field and non-expert scientists and engineers. Required CoursesCHME 6611 - Advanced Kinetics CHME 6633 - Advanced Fluid Dynamics and TransportorMECH 6630 - Advanced Fluid Mechanics CHME 6632 - Advanced Chemical ThermodynamicsorMECH 6632 - Applied Conduction Heat Transfer CHME 6630 - Chemical Systems Engineering and DesignorINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems Engineering CHME 6682 - Graduate Seminar (1 credit - to be repeated 3 times)orCHEM 6682 - Graduate Seminar (1 credit - to be repeated 3 times)Thesis OptionCHME 6698 - Thesis ICHME 6699 - Thesis IISelect 9 credits from one of the following three focus areas Note: Students are not required to select a focus area. If they choose a focus area, they should take a minimum of three elective courses (9 credits) from the list of elective courses under a selected focus area. If they do not choose a focus area, they may choose to take courses (in any combination) from the focus areas and general electives.Non-Thesis OptionCHME 6690 - Research ProjectorCHME 6688 - InternshipSelect 12 credits from one of the following three focus areas Note: Students are not required to select a focus area. If they choose a focus area, they should take a minimum of four elective courses (12 credits) from the list of elective courses under a selected focus area. If they do not choose a focus area, they may choose to take courses (in any combination) from the focus areas and general electives. Focus AreasFocus Area 1: Chemical Process Systems EngineeringCHEM 6615 - Basics of Computational ChemistryCHEM 6645 - Solid-State ChemistryENGR 6780 - Research Methods, Writing, and EthicsCHME 6667 - Advanced MaterialsFocus Area 2: Energy and Environmental Systems EngineeringCHME 6665 - Sustainable Energy Concepts - or -CIVL 6680 - Sustainable Engineering CHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryENGR 6780 - Research Methods, Writing, and EthicsENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryFocus Area 3: OptimizationDSCI 6001 - Math for Data ScientistsDSCI 6003 - Machine LearningDSCI 6011 - Deep LearningDSCI 6602 - Introduction to Programming for Data ScienceENGR 6780 - Research Methods, Writing, and Ethics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Chemistry, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes 1. Demonstrate understanding of the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental,theoretical, and computational chemistry. 2. Evaluate chemistry literature. 3. Effectively communicate research results in oral and written presentations. 4. Effectively conduct research projects. 5. Integrate theoretical & computational methods with experimental techniques to solve problems. 6. Distinguish acceptable and unacceptable ethical conduct in scientific research. Required Courses (18 credits)CHEM 6607 - Modern Organic ChemistryCHEM 6615 - Basics of Computational ChemistryCHEM 6631 - Advances in Analytic ChemistryCHEM 6682 - Graduate SeminarCHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryENGR 6780 - Research Methods, Writing, and EthicsRestricted Elective Courses (3 credits) - select at least oneCHEM 6685 - Graduate Research ProjectCHEM 6688 - Graduate InternshipCHEM 6698 - Thesis ICHEM 6699 - Thesis IIFocus Area Courses (9 credits) select three courses from one of the following areasAnalytical and Green ChemistryBIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCHEM 6645 - Solid-State ChemistryCHEM 6670 - Special TopicsCIVL 6601 - Physical-Chemical Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6603 - Contaminant Fate and Transport in the EnvironmentCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution FundamentalsComputational and Materials ChemistryBIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6645 - Solid-State ChemistryCHEM 6670 - Special TopicsCMBI 6620 - BioinformaticsCSCI 6604 - Introduction to Programming/CCSCI 6610 - Intermediate Programming: C/C++CSCI 6651 - Introduction to Script Programming/PythonMATH 6620 - Numerical AnalysisMATH 6624 - Applied MathematicsDrug Discovery ChemistryBIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCHEM 6650 - Medicinal Chemistry ICHEM 6655 - PharmacologyCHEM 6670 - Special TopicsCMBI 6620 - BioinformaticsGeneral Chemistry Any three courses from any of the focus areas listed above Project RequirementEach student must complete a substantial research project. There are three different ways that a student can satisfy the project requirement: CHEM 6685 Graduate Research Project (restricted elective). Students must find an advisor, prepare a project proposal and obtain written approval for the project prior to registration. This option offers an advantage to students who may choose to explore areas outside the curriculum. CHEM 6698 Thesis I and CHEM 6699 Thesis II (restricted electives). Students who plan to do a thesis should find a thesis advisor in their first or second semester, prepare a thesis proposal, and obtain written approval for the thesis prior to registration. For this option, both CHEM 6698 and CHEM 6699 must be completed. CHEM 6688 Graduate Internship (restricted elective). Students must find a company or research-related organization that will host students to conduct an internship activity related to chemistry research, such as computational modeling, chemical synthesis, chemical characterization, or chemical processing. An evaluation of the internship performance will be provided by the internship supervisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Civil Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The master of science in civil engineering is designed for individuals with a keen interest in civil infrastructure, construction management/engineering, or sustainability wanting to develop expertise in the analysis and design of multidisciplinary civil engineering projects, usually in a team-oriented professional environment. The program is uniquely multidisciplinary, combining knowledge of a variety of engineering disciplines to address the current needs of society. A minimum of 30 credits must be completed to earn the master of science degree in civil engineering. Specialized focus areas include: sustainability & construction engineering, and infrastructure engineering. Program Outcomes Perform detailed design of civil engineering systems Propose viable solutions to civil engineering problem Review research in civil engineering or related fields Communicate advanced technical knowledge pertaining to civil engineering through both oral and written means Before enrolling, students are generally required to have completed undergraduate courses in Physics I and lab, General Chemistry I and lab, Calculus I, II, and III. Applicants with strong academic or professional experience but without the necessary background for enrolling in some of the required courses may be asked to complete additional courses and will be notified at the time of admission. Required Design Course (3 credits)Choose one of the following design courses:CIVL 6628 - Highway EngineeringorCIVL 6630 - Structural Concrete DesignorCIVL 6631 - Structural Steel DesignorCIVL 6635 - Bridge DesignorCIVL 6637 - Building DesignorCIVL 6652 - Foundation Design and ConstructionRequired Inspection Course (3 credits)Choose one of the following inspection courses:CIVL 6636 - Bridge InspectionorCIVL 6638 - Building Inspection and MaintenanceorCIVL 6639 - Introduction to Infrastructure InspectionorCIVL 6669 - Construction Inspection and MonitoringRequired Computer-aided Course (3 credits)Choose one of the following computer-aided courses:CIVL 6641 - Computer-aided Structural DesignorCIVL 6678 - Computer Applications in Civil EngineeringElective Courses (21 credits)Select 7 courses in addition to the required courses for a total of 21 elective credits:CIVL 6628 - Highway EngineeringCIVL 6629 - Wood Engineering ICIVL 6630 - Structural Concrete DesignCIVL 6631 - Structural Steel DesignCIVL 6632 - Advanced Concrete TechnologyCIVL 6634 - Prestressed Concrete DesignCIVL 6635 - Bridge DesignCIVL 6636 - Bridge InspectionCIVL 6637 - Building DesignCIVL 6638 - Building Inspection and MaintenanceCIVL 6639 - Introduction to Infrastructure InspectionCIVL 6640 - Advanced Structural AnalysisCIVL 6641 - Computer-aided Structural DesignCIVL 6652 - Foundation Design and ConstructionCIVL 6663 - Construction Engineering, Equipment, and MethodsCIVL 6667 - Building Information ModelingCIVL 6668 - Advanced Computer-Aided DraftingCIVL 6669 - Construction Inspection and MonitoringCIVL 6670 - Selected TopicsCIVL 6678 - Computer Applications in Civil EngineeringCIVL 6680 - Sustainable EngineeringCIVL 6681 - Sustainable Urban PlanningCIVL 6682 - Green Building Design and MaterialsCIVL 6683 - Infrastructure Protection and ResilienceCIVL 6686 - Design for EnvironmentCIVL 6690 - Research ProjectCIVL 6691 - Engineering EntrepreneurshipCIVL 6692 - Civil and Environmental Engineering SeminarCIVL 6695 - Independent Study ICIVL 6696 - Independent Study IICIVL 6698 - Thesis ICIVL 6699 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Clinical Mental Health Counseling, M.A., Community Development Concentration M.A. Clinical Mental Health CounselingThe program trains graduates to work in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental health and emotional problems, as well as the promotion of mental health and wellness. It is designed to meet the program requirements for the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC). The program consists of 60 credits, 48 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students, and 12 of which constitute either electives or one of two areas of concentration. Program outcomes: Students will demonstrate competence in all 8 core domains of counseling, as well as the concentration of clinical mental health counseling. Students will successfully synthesize major theoretical concepts in the core counseling curriculum and their concentration area with their practicum experience. Students will demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in the internship. Required CoursesPSYC 6609 - Research MethodsCOUN 6617 - Career Counseling and DevelopmentCOUN 6625 - Life Span Human DevelopmentCOUN 6629 - Theories of CounselingCOUN 6630 - Professional Orientation and Ethics in CounselingCOUN 6631 - Counseling Skills and TechniquesCOUN 6632 - Group CounselingCOUN 6633 - Family TherapyCOUN 6634 - Assessment in CounselingCOUN 6636 - Diagnosis and Treatment of Mental Health DisordersCOUN 6637 - Multicultural and Diversity Issues in CounselingCOUN 6639 - Addiction and Substance Abuse CounselingCOUN 6650 - Trauma and Crisis InterventionCOUN 6690 - Counseling PracticumCOUN 6691 - Counseling Internship ICOUN 6692 - Counseling Internship IIConcentration in Community DevelopmentThe 12-credit community development concentration provides students with additional skills focused on the administration of both traditional and non-traditional programs and services. The concentration addresses planning, development, and evaluation of innovative approaches to treatment and prevention in the public and private human service sectors as well as in business and industry.Required Courses:PSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6612 - Consultation SeminarPSYC 6619 - Organizational Behavior PADM 6602 - Public Policy Formulation and ImplementationorPADM 6663 - Nonprofit Management Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Clinical Mental Health Counseling, M.A., Forensic Mental Health Concentration M.A. Clinical Mental Health CounselingThe program trains graduates to work in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental health and emotional problems, as well as the promotion of mental health and wellness. It is designed to meet the program requirements for the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC). The program consists of 60 credits, 48 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students, and 12 of which constitute either electives or one of two areas of concentration. Program outcomes: Students will demonstrate competence in all 8 core domains of counseling, as well as the concentration of clinical mental health counseling. Students will successfully synthesize major theoretical concepts in the core counseling curriculum and their concentration area with their practicum experience. Students will demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in the internship. Required CoursesPSYC 6609 - Research MethodsCOUN 6617 - Career Counseling and DevelopmentCOUN 6625 - Life Span Human DevelopmentCOUN 6629 - Theories of CounselingCOUN 6630 - Professional Orientation and Ethics in CounselingCOUN 6631 - Counseling Skills and TechniquesCOUN 6632 - Group CounselingCOUN 6633 - Family TherapyCOUN 6634 - Assessment in CounselingCOUN 6636 - Diagnosis and Treatment of Mental Health DisordersCOUN 6637 - Multicultural and Diversity Issues in CounselingCOUN 6639 - Addiction and Substance Abuse CounselingCOUN 6650 - Trauma and Crisis InterventionCOUN 6690 - Counseling PracticumCOUN 6691 - Counseling Internship ICOUN 6692 - Counseling Internship IIConcentration in Forensic Mental HealthThe 12-credit forensic mental health concentration prepares students for counseling specifically focused on care of offenders or victims in forensic settings.Required courses:PSYC 6655 - Forensic PsychologyPSYC 6657 - Forensic AssessmentPSYC 6658 - Forensic Treatment ModelsPSYC 6659 - Mental Health Law Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Clinical Mental Health Counseling, M.A., General Concentration M.A. Clinical Mental Health CounselingThe program trains graduates to work in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental health and emotional problems, as well as the promotion of mental health and wellness. It is designed to meet the program requirements for the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC). The program consists of 60 credits, 48 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students, and 12 of which constitute either electives or one of two areas of concentration. Program outcomes: Students will demonstrate competence in all 8 core domains of counseling, as well as the concentration of clinical mental health counseling. Students will successfully synthesize major theoretical concepts in the core counseling curriculum and their concentration area with their practicum experience. Students will demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in the internship. Required CoursesPSYC 6609 - Research MethodsCOUN 6617 - Career Counseling and DevelopmentCOUN 6625 - Life Span Human DevelopmentCOUN 6629 - Theories of CounselingCOUN 6630 - Professional Orientation and Ethics in CounselingCOUN 6631 - Counseling Skills and TechniquesCOUN 6632 - Group CounselingCOUN 6633 - Family TherapyCOUN 6634 - Assessment in CounselingCOUN 6636 - Diagnosis and Treatment of Mental Health DisordersCOUN 6637 - Multicultural and Diversity Issues in CounselingCOUN 6639 - Addiction and Substance Abuse CounselingCOUN 6650 - Trauma and Crisis InterventionCOUN 6690 - Counseling PracticumCOUN 6691 - Counseling Internship ICOUN 6692 - Counseling Internship IIGeneral ConcentrationThe 12-credit general concentration allows students to select from a set of courses related to the field of clinical mental health counseling, including courses available in the other concentrations.Select four courses from the following prefixes:Select four courses (12 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBH. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Community Mental Health Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Community Mental HealthThe community mental health concentration prepares students for careers in community-based human service settings. Students will learn to prevent and address psychological problems, with an emphasis on interventions within social institutions, organizations and groups, as well as directly with individuals. Select three of the following courses:COUN 6625 - Life Span Human DevelopmentCOUN 6629 - Theories of CounselingCOUN 6636 - Diagnosis and Treatment of Mental Health DisordersCOUN 6639 - Addiction and Substance Abuse CounselingCOUN 6650 - Trauma and Crisis Intervention Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Community Research and Evaluation Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Community Research and EvaluationThe community research and evaluation concentration prepares students for careers in research labs or organizations and/or who are thinking of going on to a doctoral program and a possible career in university teaching and research. Students have the option, in consultation with a faculty advisor, of completing either a thesis or two research projects. Both these options represent an integrative piece of significant independent scholarship. The thesis will be larger in scope, more formal, and more rigorous than the projects, and it must involve a well-developed and systematically conducted research study. The projects may also be a piece of research, though narrower in scope and more focused than a thesis (e.g., a pilot study or a program evaluation); they may also involve the development, implementation and evaluation of an action-oriented intervention.PSYC 6604 - Qualitative Research Methods Plus either thesis option (6 credits) or research project option (6 credits): PSYC 6695 - Individual Intensive Study IandPSYC 6696 - Individual Intensive Study II -or- PSYC 6698 - Thesis IandPSYC 6699 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Forensic Psychology Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Forensic PsychologyThe forensic psychology concentration prepares students for careers in the management and care of offenders in forensic settings. In addition, it is designed to enhance the knowledge and skills of professionals currently working in law enforcement, the courts, and various community-based treatment and prevention programs.PSYC 6655 - Forensic PsychologyPSYC 6658 - Forensic Treatment ModelsPSYC 6659 - Mental Health Law Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Program Development Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Program DevelopmentThe program development concentration prepares students for careers that emphasize the development and implementation of both traditional and non-traditional programs and services. The concentration addresses planning, development, and evaluation of innovative approaches to treatment and prevention in the public and private human service sectors as well as in business and industry.PSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorSelect two courses from the list below:PADM 6602 - Public Policy Formulation and ImplementationPADM 6637 - Grant Writing in the Public and Nonprofit SectorsPADM 6663 - Nonprofit ManagementPADM 6666 - Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit Organizations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Computer Science, M.S. Graduate Coordinator: Barun Chandra, Ph.D. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes 1. Develop a large software project, one that is well designed, complete, functions properly, and is presented appropriately. 2. Understand one aspect of modern computer systems in greater depth: networks, operating systems, parallel architectures or databases. 3. Student has mastered the methods and algorithms of one area of computer theory work independently. 4. Explain the current developments and concerns related to at least two subareas of computer Science. Students with an adequate background in computer science will complete a minimum of 30 credits of course work consisting of 9 credits of distribution courses, and 21 credits of elective courses. In addition, within these 30 credits of course work, students must satisfy a project requirement and a programming language requirement. Based on students' prior academic backgrounds, students may be required to complete up to an additional 18 credits of prerequisite core courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Students may need to complete up to 18 additional credits of core courses, in addition to the 30 other credits; at the time of admission, students will be notified which courses have been waived for them and which need to be completed by them after joining the program. Students are expected to complete the core courses as soon as possible after joining the program. Students who choose to enroll at the institution accept these prerequisite coursework requirements as a condition of their admission. Required non-core courses cannot be waived, but transfer credit and substitutions may apply. See the University transfer credit policy for more information. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Construction Engineering and Management, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The MS in Construction Engineering and Management is a 30-credit hour program. This program aims to prepare students to work on construction projects as a construction project manager. It will equip students with fundamental knowledge and software skills in Building Information Modeling (BIM), construction engineering and management, estimating, and planning. Students will study construction law and regulations and risk management and be exposed to construction safety and inspection standards. In addition, this program will also provide students with advanced knowledge in sustainability and green buildings, urban planning, and highway engineering. Graduates of this program can pursue multiple career pathways, such as Construction Manager, Project Engineer, Project Manager, Project Controller, Construction Estimator, BIM Expert, Field (Construction) Inspector, and Researcher in academic institutions and government. Program Outcomes Upon completion of the program, graduates will be able to: Apply various construction engineering principles and management techniques to efficiently plan and monitor construction projects. Analyze the business aspects of construction. Utilize software for construction planning and estimating while adhering to relevant engineering specifications and industry best practices. Communicate effective techniques for construction engineering and management. Required Courses (9 credits)All students are required to complete the following three courses:CIVL 6660 - Construction Estimating and SchedulingCIVL 6662 - Fundamentals of Construction Accounting and FinanceCIVL 6665 - Construction Project ManagementElective Courses (21 credits)Select seven courses from the following three areas. While it is not required to specify or declare a focus area, a minimum of one course (3 credits) must be from the Construction Management area: CIVL 6663, CIVL 6664, CIVL 6666. A minimum of one course (3 credits) must be taken from the Construction Engineering area: CIVL 6632, CIVL 6636, CIVL 6638, CIVL 6639, CIVL 6667, CIVL 6668, CIVL 6669, CIVL 6678.Construction ManagementA minimum of one course (3 credits) must be selected from the following: CIVL 6663 - Construction Engineering, Equipment, and MethodsCIVL 6664 - Construction Law and ClaimsCIVL 6666 - Construction Risk ManagementSustainabilityCIVL 6680 - Sustainable EngineeringCIVL 6681 - Sustainable Urban PlanningCIVL 6682 - Green Building Design and MaterialsConstruction EngineeringA minimum of one course (3 credits) must be selected from the following: CIVL 6632 - Advanced Concrete TechnologyCIVL 6636 - Bridge InspectionCIVL 6638 - Building Inspection and MaintenanceCIVL 6639 - Introduction to Infrastructure InspectionCIVL 6667 - Building Information ModelingCIVL 6668 - Advanced Computer-Aided DraftingCIVL 6669 - Construction Inspection and MonitoringCIVL 6678 - Computer Applications in Civil EngineeringOther ElectivesCIVL 6636 - Bridge InspectionCIVL 6638 - Building Inspection and MaintenanceCIVL 6639 - Introduction to Infrastructure InspectionCIVL 6690 - Research ProjectCIVL 6691 - Engineering EntrepreneurshipCIVL 6692 - Civil and Environmental Engineering SeminarCIVL 6695 - Independent Study ICIVL 6696 - Independent Study IICIVL 6698 - Thesis ICIVL 6699 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Criminal Justice, M.S. A total of 33-36 credits is required for the degree of master of science in criminal justice. All degree candidates must complete the following 12 credits of core curriculum: Program Outcomes: Understand the basic core components of the criminal justice system. Students will continue to refine skills developed at UNH to analyze real world data and will understand its importance in the criminal justice setting. Students will understand how the skills developed during their time within the graduate program enhances their career opportunities. Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the ethical and professional duties and responsibilities of employment within the criminal justice field. Students must select one of the following tracks: Comprehensive Examination TrackGraduate students on the comprehensive examination track (default option) complete 24 credits of elective courses in criminal justice and/or related fields in addition to a required, non-credit comprehensive final examination.Thesis TrackGraduate students on the thesis track (elective option) complete 12 credits of elective courses plus 12 credits of the following required courses:CJST 6615 - Foundations of ScholarshipCJST 6637 - Criminal Justice PolicyCJST 6697 - Thesis ICJST 6698 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Cyber Risk Management, M.S. The M.S. Cyber Risk Management program develops participants' skills and competencies in the rapidly growing field of cybersecurity management and leadership. To lead a cybersecurity function in today's contemporary organizations, individuals must be well versed in leadership, business strategy, and risk management. They also must be able to function as a member of executive teams that address strategic issues accross the entire organization. The program is tailored to persons in IT, or other domains, that want to move up or transition into a leadership role, such as CISO, CIO, and CTO. Program Outcomes Upon completion of the program the student will be able to: Explain the relationship between cybersecurity and your organization's strategic goals. Develop a plan using risk mitigation tools and techniques to lessen the impact of a cybersecurity incident. Develop an integrated plan to ensure cyber risk management in support of business continuity. Develop solutions for networking and security problems that balance business concerns, technical issues, and security. This program requires completion of the following: Required Courses (30 credits)MGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingMGMT 6657 - Risk ManagementMGMT 6805 - Global Perspectives on Cybersecurity OperationsMGMT 6810 - Cybersecurity Incident Detection and ResponseMGMT 6815 - Strategic Management and Governance of Information AssetsMGMT 6820 - Incident and Critical Event CommunicationMGMT 6825 - Contemporary Issues in CybersecurityMGMT 6668 - Leading Organizational Strategy and ChangeMGMT 6830 - Cybersecurity Strategic Planning CapstoneMGMT 6647 - Network Security and Operations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes Investigations, M.S. The Master of Science in Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes Investigations combines the expertise of the investigations program with leading experts in cyber threat intelligence and financial crimes investigations. The program integrates the legal and prosecution issues and cyber intelligence analytics with the investigative processes for investigating associated financial crimes; following the money (or in today's world, the crypto assets). This program requires the completion of 30 credit hours. Program Outcomes By completing this program, students will: 1. Evaluate cyber threats to identify the typology. 2. Identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. 3. Analyze the legal requirements for investigations. 4. Critique an investigation. Required Courses (21 credits)INVS 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation ProceduresINVS 6619 - Topics in Intelligence AnalyticsINVS 6631 - Investigations IINVS 6652 - Network Security, Data Protection, and TelecommunicationsINVS 6653 - Internet Vulnerabilities and Criminal ActivityINVS 6704 - Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6705 - Applied Methods of Cyber Intelligence and Financial Crimes InvestigationsRestricted Electives (6 credits)Choose 6 graduate credits of INVS courses in consultation with your advisor.Elective (3 credits)Choose 3 graduate credits from any discipline in consultation with your advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Networks program is designed to prepare students for opportunities and challenges in the field of cybersecurity and networking. The program offers a strong foundation in networking and Enterprise networks, with special interest in securing and protecting those networks. Possible specialized focus areas include, but are not limited to: ethical hacking, cyber forensics, cryptography, Enterprise networks, ISP networks, wireless networks, and Cloud computing. This program offers opportunities to gain subject matter expertise in a wide range of cross-disciplinary fields such as engineering and data analytics. Students must complete a minimum of 30 credits to earn this degree. Program Outcomes Upon successful completion of the program students will be able to perform the following: Apply computer forensic techniques to investigate a computer related event. Develop security defenses for a computer system based on an understanding of the standard techniques used to attack systems and networks. Write script programs to automate various system tasks. Employ advanced techniques in a focus area related to computer security, cyber forensics, wireless networking, or system administration. Admission Policy This program is designed to accommodate students with no prior programming experience as well as those who already hold an undergraduate degree in computer science or information technology. All applicants will be expected to demonstrate that they have completed a baccalaureate degree prior to enrolling in the program. International applicants are urged to submit scores from the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) to be considered for admission. GRE scores are required for international applicants who wish to be considered for scholarships. The GRE is optional for graduates of regionally accredited United States colleges and universities. Students who are admitted with an adequate background in computing must complete 30 credit hours of coursework consisting of 9 credit hours of required courses, 15 credit hours of cybersecurity and network electives, and 6 credit hours of computer science electives for a total of 30 credits. In addition, within these 30 credit hours of coursework, students must satisfy a project requirement. Based on students' prior academic backgrounds, students may be required to complete up to an additional 12 credits of prerequisite core courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Students may need to complete up to 12 additional credits of core courses (see section below) in addition to the 30 other credits; at the time of admission, students will be notified which courses have been waived for them and which need to be completed by them after joining the program. Students are expected to complete the core courses as soon as possible after joining the program. Students who choose to enroll at the institution accept these prerequisite coursework requirements as a condition of their admission. Core Courses (12 credits - waivable)Students with deficiencies in these areas will be required to take one or more of these courses in addition to the regular courses for the MS Cybersecurity and Network degree.CSCI 6604 - Introduction to Programming/CCSCI 6610 - Intermediate Programming: C/C++CSCI 6642 - Computer Networks and Data CommunicationCSCI 6643 - Operating SystemsRequired Courses (9 credits)The following three courses must be completed by every student in the program and are not waivable:CSCI 6637 - Introduction to Cyber Forensic ScienceCSCI 6646 - Introduction to Computer SecurityCSCI 6651 - Introduction to Script Programming/PythonThese three required courses cannot be waived. However, a student with prior knowledge may substitute Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Data Science, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Data Science (MSDS) program is designed to prepare students for opportunities and challenges in the field of data science. The program offers a strong foundation in data analysis, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and statistical modeling. Specialized focus areas include big data, deep learning, computer vision, and natural language processing with opportunities to gain subject matter expertise in a wide range of cross-disciplinary fields such as security, business analytics, and health care analytics. To earn the MSDS degree, a student must complete a minimum of 33 credits. One of these courses (3 credits) is considered a prerequisite preparatory course, which may be waived by the program coordinator during the initial admission application review. Students will be informed if the course is waived or required at the time of admission. Program Outcomes: Perform explorative data analysis in the context of real world applications. Design and build appropriate algorithms to model and interpret data. Build an end-to-end distributed data-pipeline. Apply subject-matter expertise to the design and development of data-driven solutions. Demonstrate the ability to work independently. Required Courses (21 credits)DSCI 6001 - Math for Data ScientistsDSCI 6002 - Introduction to Data ScienceDSCI 6003 - Machine LearningDSCI 6004 - Natural Language ProcessingDSCI 6007 - Distributed & Scalable Data EngineeringDSCI 6011 - Deep LearningInternship or Capstone (3 credits)DSCI 6010 - Data Science InternshiporDSCI 6051 - Data Science Capstone ProjectSpecial Topics and ElectivesChoose two courses including at least one from Special Topics. Students can take either two Special Topics or one Special Topics and one Elective.Special TopicsCSCI 6680 - Computer VisionDSCI 6006 - Leadership and EntrepreneurismDSCI 6015 - AI and CybersecurityDSCI 6653 - Bayesian Data AnalysisELEC 6101 - Autonomous Vehicles I: Modeling, Perception, and State EstimationELEC 6102 - Autonomous Vehicles II: Artificial Intelligence-enabled Decision-makingAny new courses introduced by the program as special topics with course numbers within the range of DSCI 6670 and 6679.ElectivesStudents taking one Special Topics course must select an elective and vice versa.BANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingCMBI 6620 - BioinformaticsCSCI 6624 - Advanced Database SystemsCSCI 6627 - Distributed Database SystemsCSCI 6634 - Cryptography and Data SecurityCSCI 6638 - Small-Scale Digital Forensic ScienceCSCI 6646 - Introduction to Computer SecurityECON 6635 - Business ForecastingEGRM 6611 - Decision Making Under UncertaintyINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6645 - Data AnalyticsINDE 6647 - Supply Chain Analytics and ResiliencePUBH 6680 - Health AnalyticsRequired Courses (3 credits) - may be waivedStudents without sufficient skills in Python programming will be required to take the following course. This determination is made during the admissions process, and students will be informed at the time of admission if this course is required or waived. Students who choose to attend the university in this program agree to take the course if shown as required:DSCI 6602 - Introduction to Programming for Data ScienceCourse PlanA recommended course plan (30 credit hours) for students who are NOT required to take DSCI 6602 - Introduction to Programming for Data Science: First Semester DSCI 6001 - Math for Data Scientists DSCI 6002 - Intro to Data Science DSCI 6612 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence Second Semester DSCI 6003 - Machine Learning DSCI 6007 - Distributed & Scalable Data Engineering Elective/Special Topic Course Third Semester DSCI 6004 - Natural Language Processing DSCI 6011 - Deep Learning Elective/Special Topic Course Fourth Semester DSCI 6010 - Data Science Internship or Capstone Project A recommended course plan (33 credit hours) for students who are required to take DSCI 6602 - Introduction to Programming for Data Science: First Semester DSCI 6602 - Introduction to Programming for Data Science DSCI 6001 - Math for Data Scientists DSCI 6002 - Intro to Data Science Second Semester DSCI 6003 - Machine Learning DSCI 6612 - Intro to Artificial Intelligence DSCI 6007 - Distributed & Scalable Data Engineering Third Semester DSCI 6004 - Natural Language Processing DSCI 6011 - Deep Learning Elective/Special Topic Course Fourth Semester DSCI 6010 - Data Science Internship or Capstone Project Elective/Special Topic Course Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Digital Forensic Investigations, M.S. The Master of Science in Digital Forensic Investigations combines the expertise of the investigations program with leading experts in digital forensic investigations and E-Discovery. The program integrates the legal and prosecution issues with the exploration of digital forensic tools commonly used in digital forensic investigations. 30 credit hours NOTE: This program is offered in an online format only. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: The student will be able to describe the steps necessary for a thorough investigation. The student will be able to identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. The student will be able to define the legal requirements for investigations. The student will be able to critique an investigation. Required Courses (24 credits)INVS 6624 - E-Discovery InvestigationsINVS 6680 - Foundations of Digital Forensics InvestigationsINVS 6681 - Computer Device InvestigationsINVS 6682 - Mobile Device InvestigationsINVS 6683 - Advanced Topics in Digital Forensics InvestigationsINVS 6684 - Digital Forensics and ProsecutionINVS 6685 - Survey in Forensic Tools and SoftwareINVS 6686 - Digital Capstone ProjectElective Courses (6 credits) Two free electives (six credits total) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Electrical Engineering, M.S. Coordinator: Ali Golbazi, Ph.D. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering (MSEE) is designed to provide students and practicing engineers alike with a background in analysis, design, development, or research on electrical or computer engineering in a variety of technical areas. It enables students to expand and deepen their knowledge beyond the baccalaureate degree and gives them the ability to adapt to ever-changing technological developments. Students with adequate background in electrical or digital and computer systems can complete the MSEE degree by successfully completing a minimum of 30 credits of course and project work. Six additional waivable credits are assigned as bridge courses as needed. In such cases when these are assigned, students will be informed at the time of admission. Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of fundamental concepts for graduate study in electrical and computer engineering ​Demonstrate knowledge of advanced topics in electrical and computer engineering Apply design and analysis methods to solve emerging electrical and computer engineering problems Conduct research and/or comprehensive projects in electrical engineering Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Emergency Management, M.S. This graduate program is designed to develop emergency management and related professionals grounded in emergency management principles, social and natural science knowledge, administrative and managerial skills, and technical and personal competencies. The program will contribute to the professionalization of the emergency management community and help cultivate a culture of preparedness and prevention through developing skills to build community capacity to solve problems in emergency situations. 36 credit hours PROGRAM OUTCOMES: The student will be able to research an emergency management topic and present his/her findings in a concise and clear document. The student shall be able to describe the effects of social and cultural issues on emergency planning and the special types of emergency planning that might be needed to address same. The student will be able to describe the various FEMA disaster programs, what their components are and what areas of disaster recovery they are applicable to. In addition the student will be able to describe the Hazard Mitigation grant program. The student will be able to identify and discuss the ethical issues related to emergency management such as: evacuation planning, emergency response, and emergency recovery actions. The student will be able to identify and use new and emerging technologies to improve emergency management capabilities. The student will be able to describe how non-government and private sector entities need to become partners in public sector emergency planning The student will be able to demonstrate using a FEMA model plan to develop a local emergency operation plan. In addition be able to describe the difference between annexes and emergency support functions. Required Courses: (24 credits) EMGT 6601 - Principles of Emergency ManagementEMGT 6602 - Principles and Practices of Hazard MitigationEMGT 6603 - Catastrophe Readiness and ResponseEMGT 6604 - Holistic Disaster Recovery: Creating a More Sustainable FutureEMGT 6624 - Social Dimensions of DisasterEMGT 6628 - Emergency Incident Management EMGT 6697 - Emergency Management Thesis Proposal and Research andEMGT 6698 - Emergency Management Thesis Writing and DefenseorEMGT 6690 - Emergency Management Research Project andFIRE 6632 - Strategic Planning for Public Safety LeadersElective Courses: (12 credits)Students should contact their advisor to select the proper courses to fulfill this requirement. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Engineering and Operations Management, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science degree in engineering and operations management provides students with the knowledge, skills, and the tool set required to assume supervisory, managerial, and leadership positions in production, manufacturing, and service organizations. The program is a balanced mix of theoretical concepts and highly practical approaches to dealing with the day-to-day issues, tasks, and activities on the job. Created for individuals who aspire to be involved in managing operations and organizations, this program melds state-of-the-art engineering methodologies combined with state-of-the-art software with key components of business-related topics such as project and risk management, finance and economic analysis, marketing, data, and supply chain analytics. Students in this program receive excellent exposure to real-world engineering and operations management practices through instruction by industry experts and professionals in the field. The program places heavy emphasis on project-based learning, giving students the opportunity to network with other professionals and gain real-world practice in the classroom. Internships in the program typically lead to full-time jobs at both large and small organizations, as demand is high and the number of engineering management graduates is limited. Program Outcomes Through the completion of this program, students will be able to: Manage projects and teams using advanced tools and software Perform decision analysis tasks using analytical modeling and simulation tools Manage supply chains and production Contribute to financial decisions using various management tools and methods Conduct process improvement in various work settings Students must complete a minimum total of 30 graduate credits. MSEOM Program Placement For candidates holding a bachelor's degree in engineering or a related field, with a GPA of 3.0 or higher from an ABET-accredited program, the MSEOM can be earned by successfully completing 30 credits consisting of 21 credits of core courses and 9 credits of elective courses. Candidates not holding a bachelor's degree from an ABET-accredited program and candidates holding a bachelor's degree from an ABET accredited program but with inadequate preparation in foundational areas would be required to complete up to an additional 6 credits of foundational courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Required non-foundation courses cannot be waived, but transfer credit and substitutions may apply. See the University transfer credit policy for more information. Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)EGRM 6609 - Applied Statistics for Quality and Engineering ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisCore Courses (21 credits)EGRM 6604 - Concepts of Engineering and Quality ManagementorEGRM 6605 - Computing and Modeling for Engineering Management EGRM 6611 - Decision Making Under UncertaintyEGRM 6613 - Organizational Change and DevelopmentEGRM 6615 - Applied Marketing for Engineers and Operations Managers EGRM 6630 - Project ManagementorINDE 6630 - Project and Risk Management EGRM 6640 - Lean Six SigmaEGRM 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementEGRM 6681 - Simulation Techniques and ApplicationsEGRM 6684 - Laboratory-EGRM 6681Electives (9 credits)Select 3 elective courses. The remaining credits beyond the required courses may be taken from the courses listed below or other closely related disciplines with the approval of the MSEOM program coordinator. The following is a partial listing of elective courses which may change as the program evolves:EGRM 6617 - Engineering Economics and Cost EstimatingEGRM 6627 - Value Engineering and DesignEGRM 6645 - Data AnalyticsINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6643 - Reliability and MaintainabilityINDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsResearch ProjectThe project requirement of the program is met through EGRM 6681, a required project course. Students who wish to go beyond the minimum graduation requirement of the Research Project within a course may elect to undertake an additional 3 credits of EGRM 6690 Research Project, working on a topic of interest with a faculty advisor. Projects involving scenarios from an industrial or corporate setting are encouraged. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php A minimum of 30 credits, including four required courses, must be completed from courses designated as environmental engineering to earn the master of science degree in environmental engineering. Specialized focus areas include Water and Soil Treatment and Water Resources. Students may elect to pursue a sequence of courses in one focus area, or they may tailor a program of study to meet specific individual needs. A thesis is optional but highly recommended for students who wish to continue their post-graduate studies or focus on a particular topic under the guidance of a faculty member. Program Outcomes Apply the fundamental principles of environmental engineering science to complex environmental systems. Design treatment/remediation systems or system components. Apply the legal and regulatory aspects of environmental engineering practice. Synthesize information on technical as well as non-technical issues for a chosen topic into an engineering report or thesis. Before enrolling, students are generally required to have completed undergraduate courses in General Chemistry I and lab, Calculus I, II, III, and Differential Equations. Applicants with strong academic or professional experience but without the necessary background for enrolling in some of the required courses may be asked to complete additional courses and will be notified at the time of admission. Required Courses (12 credits)CIVL 6601 - Physical-Chemical Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6602 - Biological Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6603 - Contaminant Fate and Transport in the EnvironmentCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationElectives (18 credits)Please choose 18 credits from the following focus areas and general electives. Note: Students are not required to select a focus area. If they choose a focus area, they are not required to take all courses within it. They may choose to take courses (in any combination) from the focus areas and general electives below.Focus Area: Water ResourcesCIVL 6614 - Surface Water Quality ManagementCIVL 6615 - Groundwater HydrologyENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsCIVL 6620 - Engineering HydrologyCIVL 6623 - Open Channel HydraulicsCIVL 6624 - Computer Applications in Hydrology/HydraulicsFocus Area: Water and Soil TreatmentCIVL 6604 - Aqueous ChemistryCIVL 6605 - Solid Waste ManagementCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution FundamentalsCIVL 6612 - Advanced Wastewater TreatmentCIVL 6618 - Hazardous Waste TreatmentCHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryGeneral ElectivesCIVL 6680 - Sustainable EngineeringCIVL 6683 - Infrastructure Protection and ResilienceCIVL 6690 - Research ProjectCIVL 6692 - Civil and Environmental Engineering SeminarCIVL 6698 - Thesis ICIVL 6699 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., Environmental Ecology Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II Environmental Ecology Required CoursesCHEM 6601 - Environmental Chemistry Select two of the following three courses:ENVS 6603 - Wetlands Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6608 - Landscape EcologyEnvironmental Ecology Elective CoursesENVS 6320 - Marine PollutionENVS 6331 - Marine Conservation and RestorationENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6607 - Environmental Reports and Impact AssessmentENVS 6617 - Subsurface AssessmentENVS 6634 - Environmental Education Instructor ClinicENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6653 - Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 6695 - Independent Study ICIVL 6611 - Air Pollution FundamentalsENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsINVS 6661 - Contemporary Topics in Wildlife Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6662 - Contemporary Topics in Environmental Crimes Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., Environmental Geoscience Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II Environmental Geoscience Required CoursesENVS 6603 - Wetlands Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6617 - Subsurface AssessmentCIVL 6603 - Contaminant Fate and Transport in the EnvironmentCIVL 6615 - Groundwater HydrologyEnvironmental Geoscience Elective CoursesENVS 6607 - Environmental Reports and Impact AssessmentENVS 6608 - Landscape EcologyENVS 6632 - Field Geology of the NortheastENVS 6633 - Selected Topics in Field GeologyENVS 6634 - Environmental Education Instructor ClinicENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsENVS 6695 - Independent Study ICHEM 6601 - Environmental Chemistry Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., Environmental Health and Management Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II Environmental Health and Management Required CoursesENVS 6610 - Environmental HealthCHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryPUBH 6615 - Principles of Epidemiology Select one of the following two courses:ENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6653 - Environmental MicrobiologyEnvironmental Health and Management Elective CoursesCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution FundamentalsENVS 6607 - Environmental Reports and Impact AssessmentENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsFORS 6662 - Forensic ToxicologyPUBH 6625 - Biostatistical Applications in Public HealthENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsENVS 6695 - Independent Study I Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., General Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II General Elective CoursesPossible elective courses for the General concentration:ENVS 6200 - Advanced OceanographyENVS 6201 - Advanced Marine Organismal BiologyENVS 6310 - Algal Research MethodsENVS 6320 - Marine PollutionENVS 6331 - Marine Conservation and RestorationENVS 6400 - Tropical Marine EcologyENVS 6440 - Aquaculture IENVS 6444 - Aquaculture IIENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6603 - Wetlands Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6604 - Ecology of Inland WatersENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6607 - Environmental Reports and Impact AssessmentENVS 6608 - Landscape EcologyENVS 6610 - Environmental HealthENVS 6616 - Human Health and Environmental Risk AssessmentENVS 6617 - Subsurface AssessmentENVS 6632 - Field Geology of the NortheastENVS 6633 - Selected Topics in Field GeologyENVS 6634 - Environmental Education Instructor ClinicENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IENVS 6642 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IIENVS 6643 - Advanced Applications of GISENVS 6653 - Environmental MicrobiologyENVS 6695 - Independent Study IENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for Professionals Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., Geographical Information Systems and Applications Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II Geographical Information Systems and Applications Required CoursesENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IENVS 6642 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IIENVS 6643 - Advanced Applications of GISGeographical Information Systems and Applications Elective CoursesENVS 6331 - Marine Conservation and RestorationENVS 6603 - Wetlands Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6607 - Environmental Reports and Impact AssessmentENVS 6608 - Landscape EcologyENVS 6617 - Subsurface AssessmentCIVL 6681 - Sustainable Urban PlanningENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsENVS 6695 - Independent Study I Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., Marine Biology Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II Marine Biology Required CoursesENVS 6200 - Advanced OceanographyENVS 6201 - Advanced Marine Organismal BiologyENVS 6320 - Marine PollutionENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryMarine Biology Elective CoursesCHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryENVS 6310 - Algal Research MethodsENVS 6331 - Marine Conservation and RestorationENVS 6400 - Tropical Marine EcologyENVS 6440 - Aquaculture IENVS 6444 - Aquaculture IIENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6603 - Wetlands Ecology with LaboratoryENVS 6604 - Ecology of Inland WatersENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IENVS 6642 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IIENVS 6643 - Advanced Applications of GISMPMA 6609 - Marine Fisheries PolicyENVS 6695 - Independent Study IENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for Professionals Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Esports Business, M.S. The Masters in Esports Business program provides students with the necessary mix of theoretical and practical education to succeed as employees and future leaders in esports and esports-adjacent industries. Delivered by a mix of academics and high-level practitioners, the courses in this program will prepare students to navigate the interaction between different industry stakeholders in order to conceptualize, develop, and execute major esports business projects. This program develops a concrete set of functional skills needed to engage with all aspects of the industry. Students will perform a deep analysis of the esports industry to understand stakeholder motivations and recognize gaps in the market. Students will also integrate other key concepts related to esports business such as promoting a culture of health in esports organizations, ensuring sporting integrity in esports competitions, maximizing returns from the live streaming economy and capitalizing on entrepreneurship opportunities in the esports industry. This program culminates in a capstone course where students plan an esports event incorporating insights into present and future esports fan demographic changes, cooperation with endemic and non-endemic sponsors and integration of present and near-future broadcasting technologies. The MS in Esports Business program requires 33 graduate credits. Upon completion of this program, students will be able to: • Analyze the motivations and opportunities of stakeholders in esports; • Evaluate the markets facing an esports organization for potential opportunities and/or efficiencies; • Evaluate the impact of future domestic and international demographic shifts on the profitability of a potential esports opportunity or existing property; • Incorporate analysis of fan behavior into a marketing strategy for an esports property • Develop a marketing plan for an esports organization; • Critically evaluate the business rationale for engaging specific groups of esports stakeholders; • Analyze the value proposition of select esports genres, and titles; • Evaluate an esports organization's use of best practices with regard to the health of its participants; • Develop a plan for leading organizational change to incorporate diversity and inclusion; • Develop a plan for an esports tournament organizer to implement integrity measures to safeguard the principles of fair and clean competition; • Develop an engagement plan for both endemic and non-endemic sponsors as part of an esports event; • Develop a strategy to deploy an online live streaming broadcast. Required Courses (33 Credits):ESPT 6100 - Business and Entrepreneurship in EsportsESPT 6120 - Esports IntegrityESPT 6130 - Marketing to the Esports ConsumerESPT 6140 - Leading Organizational Change in Esports: Diversity and InclusionESPT 6200 - Stakeholder Management in EsportsESPT 6220 - Value Proposition of Livestreaming PlatformsESPT 6230 - Managing Talent in the Streaming EconomyESPT 6300 - Capitalizing on Opportunities in EsportsESPT 6400 - Esports Event Organization and Management (Capstone Course)HCAD 6100 - Managing Health Considerations in EsportsSMGT 6613 - Sports Facility ManagementSMGT 6625 - Sport Business Analytics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Finance and Financial Analytics, M.S. (STEM) Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science degree in finance and financial analytics prepares students to compete in the financial world. Students gain experience through a rigorous curriculum, internships, and real-world projects. Classes are small and the program is comprehensive. The MS Finance and Financial Analytics program is a 30-to-33-credit program and consists of one three-credit foundation course and ten three-credit courses (six required and four elective). The foundation course is ACCT 6620 Financial Accounting for Managers. The foundation course may be waived on the basis of appropriate undergraduate or graduate courses, subject to the approval of the finance graduate coordinator. Program Objectives: Our graduates will: a. advance their careers in the financial services or corporate sectors. b. achieve relevant professional certifications and/or licensure. Program Learning Goals: Graduates of our MS program in finance and financial analytics will be able to demonstrate: Significant analytical capability in finance and a working knowledge of the data and analytical tools available. Knowledge of the functional areas of finance and risk analysis. An awareness of ethical standards required for individual success in the industry and the health of the financial sector. The ability to communicate their analysis and advice effectively. Program Outcomes: By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1.1 Evaluate financial challenges/opportunities using appropriate econometric techniques. 1.2 Evaluate financial challenges/opportunities using appropriate financial datasets. 2.1 Describe the risks/rewards available from different types of alternative investment vehicles. 2.2 Analyze the risks/rewards available from specific alternative investment vehicles. 3.1 Describe the ethical and compliance issues that potentially arise in various financial markets. 4.1 Prepare written recommendations analyzing financial challenges/opportunities that employ appropriate financial tools. 4.2 Orally present recommendations that analyze financial challenges/opportunities employing appropriate financial tools. Foundation Course (3 credits - may be waived)ACCT 6620 - Financial Accounting for ManagersCore Courses (18 credits)FINC 6605 - Financial EconometricsorBANL 6100 - Business Analytics FINC 6610 - Capital Market TheoryFINC 6611 - Equity Market Valuation and AnalysisFINC 6620 - Fixed Income AnalysisFINC 6692 - Finance CapstoneElectives (12 credits)Choose four of the following courses:FINC 6602 - Corporate FinanceFINC 6613 - Derivative Market Analysis and Trading TechniquesFINC 6615 - Quantitative Trading StrategiesFINC 6616 - Analytical Applications in FinTechFINC 6617 - Mergers and AcquisitionsFINC 6630 - Corporate Financial Analysis and ApplicationsFINC 6632 - International Financial ManagementFINC 6640 - Real Estate AnalysisFINC 6641 - Regulation, Compliance, and Examination ProcessFINC 6645 - Equity Valuation ResearchFINC 6654 - Introduction to Financial Wealth ManagementFINC 6656 - Wealth ManagementFINC 6670 - Selected TopicsFINC 6681 - CFA Exam ReviewFINC 6690 - Research ProjectFINC 6691 - Masters Project in FinanceFINC 6693 - InternshipFINC 6695 - Independent Study IFINC 6698 - Thesis IBANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementBANL 6550 - Managing Quality in the Supply ChainBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6670 - Special Topics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Fire and Explosion Investigation, M.S. The master's degree in Fire and Explosion Investigation is offered to the men and women entering the field of fire investigation in both private and public sectors as well as to experienced investigators seeking advanced education in this field. The program focuses on the need to understand the dynamics of fire, the chemistry of explosions, the systematic process of fire and explosion investigations and reconstruction, as well as the requisite knowledge of expert testimony. Candidates are required to complete forty credits of graduate work, which may include an internship in fire science. Twenty-two credits are dedicated to the core fire and explosion courses while the remaining eighteen credits are fulfilled by restricted electives. Students must complete either FIRE 6690 - Research Project or FIRE 6693 - Internship. Program Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to: use the scientific method to determine the origin and cause of a fire. Evaluate fire load, fire development and burn patterns to determine the intensity and progression of the fire and the impact of fire code deficiencies. effectively communicate in writing their finding and have them submitted for evaluation, approval and implementation. determine if a fire was accidental, natural, incendiary in nature or must be considered undetermined. identify hazardous materials or other safety hazards and the appropriate course of mitigation necessary to render a fire scene reasonably safe to investigate. coordinate and manage a fire and explosion investigation team and coordinate all activities with related public and private sector agencies. Required Courses (22 credits):FIRE 6625 - Chemistry of Fires and ExplosionsFIRE 6669 - Dynamics, Evaluation, and Prevention of Structural FiresINVS 6614 - Survey of Forensic ScienceFIRE 6649 - Fire Scene Investigation and Arson AnalysisFIRE 6650 - Arson for ProfitFIRE 6665 - Legal Aspects of Fire and Arson Investigation FIRE 6690 - Research ProjectorFIRE 6693 - InternshipRestricted Electives (18 credits):Select 18 credits from the following restricted electives. Other restricted electives require written consent of the program director.FIRE 6661 - Systems Approach to Fire SafetyFIRE 6663 - Fire Protection Systems ApplicationFIRE 6664 - TerrorismFIRE 6666 - Industrial Fire ProtectionFIRE 6667 - Fire and Building Codes, Standards, and PracticesFIRE 6668 - Fire Casualty Insurance PracticesFIRE 6684 - Fire Scene Reconstruction Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Fire Protection Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php. The master of science in Fire Protection Engineering prepares students to lead projects that require knowledge and skills of practicing fire protection engineering. The program will equip students with the ability to design, analyze, and model fire protection systems and risk analysis for future rapidly-changing safety requirements in various fast-growing situations, such as manufacturing, labs, smart buildings, energy storage facilities, etc. A high job market demand shows a large student recruitment potential for students with B.S. engineering background in other engineering disciplines and a desire to pursue opportunities in fire protection engineering. This program requires the completion of 30 credit hours. Program Outcomes: 1. Conduct appropriate experimentation or computer simulation in a fire phenomena and protection system. 2. Solve real-world fire protection engineering problems within budgetary and time constraints. 3. Create a code-based justification for their solution(s) based on findings to the authority having jurisdiction. 4. Solve defined fire protection systems problems using mathematics, science, and engineering tools. 5. Communicate technical contents of fire engineering project design and implementation. Required Courses (15 credits)FIRE 6605 - Quantitative Analysis of Fire PhenomenaFIRE 6615 - Fire ModelingFIRE 6660 - Fire Hazard and Risk AnalysisFIRE 6666 - Industrial Fire ProtectionFIRE 6669 - Dynamics, Evaluation, and Prevention of Structural FiresElectives (15 credits)Students may choose either the non-Thesis or Thesis track. Each track requires the completion of 15 credits.Non-Thesis TrackFIRE 6690 - Research ProjectorFIRE 6693 - Internship Select four courses (12 credits) from the following list:CIVL 6668 - Advanced Computer-Aided DraftingEMGT 6601 - Principles of Emergency ManagementFIRE 6625 - Chemistry of Fires and ExplosionsFIRE 6649 - Fire Scene Investigation and Arson AnalysisFIRE 6667 - Fire and Building Codes, Standards, and PracticesFIRE 6684 - Fire Scene ReconstructionMECH 6606 - Fundamentals of CombustionMECH 6627 - Computer-Aided EngineeringMECH 6632 - Applied Conduction Heat TransferThesis TrackFIRE 6698 - Thesis IandFIRE 6699 - Thesis II CIVL 6668 - Advanced Computer-Aided DraftingEMGT 6601 - Principles of Emergency ManagementFIRE 6625 - Chemistry of Fires and ExplosionsFIRE 6649 - Fire Scene Investigation and Arson AnalysisFIRE 6667 - Fire and Building Codes, Standards, and PracticesFIRE 6684 - Fire Scene ReconstructionMECH 6606 - Fundamentals of CombustionMECH 6627 - Computer-Aided EngineeringMECH 6632 - Applied Conduction Heat Transfer Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Accounting, M.S. The M.S. in Forensic Accounting program is a fully-online program that combines the strengths of the University's academic expertise in the areas of accounting and forensic investigations to create a new program designed to prepare students for careers as forensic accountants, investigators, and corporate financial security experts. By the end of this program students will be able to: 1) Understand the ethical and legal environment and responsibilities of a forensic accounting; 2) Understand the forensic accounting tools and practices needed for specific engagements; 3) Demonstrate core forensic accounting knowledge. This program requires 30 graduate credits. Students must have completed at least two courses in Intermediate Accounting and one course in Auditing at the undergraduate level. Required Courses (30 credits)ACCT 6643 - Professional Practice for Forensic AccountingACCT 6655 - Forensic and Investigative AccountingACCT 6656 - Valuation TheoryACCT 6658 - Financial Fraud Quantitative MethodsACCT 6662 - Fraud ExaminationACCT 6690 - Research ProjectBUSL 6642 - Legal and Ethical Issues in Litigation SupportINVS 6602 - Contemporary Fraud SchemesINVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsLSTD 6620 - Regulation and Occupational Fraud Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Science, M.S. Coordinator: Virginia Maxwell, D. Phil STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Candidates are required to complete 42 credits of graduate work over a period of four semesters. Transfer of credit from other institutions may be permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Students can demonstrate proficiency in the proper use of various instruments, equipment, or technical procedures. 2. Students recognize and identify common forms of physical and pattern evidence, and can properly interpret related examinations of this evidence. 3. Students can describe major ethical and professional guidelines and principles. Thesis The MS Forensic Science requires students to write a research-based, publication-quality thesis. The thesis must show an ability to organize material in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Required Courses (33 credits)FORS 6620 - Advanced Criminalistics IFORS 6621 - Advanced Criminalistics Laboratory IFORS 6640 - Advanced Criminalistics IIFORS 6641 - Advanced Criminalistics Laboratory IIFORS 6653 - Physical Analysis in Forensic ScienceFORS 6673 - Forensic DNA AnalysisFORS 6674 - Forensic DNA Analysis LaboratoryFORS 6697 - Thesis I with SeminarFORS 6698 - Thesis IIFORS 6614 - Survey of Forensic ScienceFORS 6617 - Forensic Expert TestimonyPlus three of the following (nine credits)FORS 6616 - Advanced Crime Scene InvestigationFORS 6642 - Wildlife ForensicsFORS 6645 - Drug Chemistry and IdentificationFORS 6660 - Forensic MicroscopyFORS 6662 - Forensic ToxicologyFORS 6695 - Independent StudyFORS 6601 - Forensic Genetic GenealogyFORS 6608 - Forensic Investigation of Animal CrueltyFORS 6619 - Fingerprint AnalysisFORS 6634 - Bloodstain Pattern AnalysisFORS 6655 - Firearm Evidence AnalysisFORS 6670 - Selected Topics(Special Topics courses approved by advisor) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Technology, M.S. Coordinator: Maria Torre, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Forensic technology is a developing discipline that combines traditional crime scene techniques with advanced instrumentation and measurements. Students in this program will master various forms of forensic field technology such as portable instrumentation and forensic database usage. Restricted electives associated with this program allow students to develop specialized knowledge in areas such as bloodstain pattern analysis, firearms evidence, and crash reconstruction. This program is designed for students continuing from their undergraduate work or working professionals. Students can attend all required courses during evening hours, Monday through Friday. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 42 credits of graduate work. This includes a Capstone experience in the form of an internship or research project designed to fulfill the Master of Science Capstone requirement. The transfer of credit from other institutions may be permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Students can determine and integrate the application of the basic principles of the natural sciences to the examination and analysis of forensic evidence. 2. Students will distinguish and compare common forms of physical and pattern evidence, and can properly interpret related examinations of this evidence. 3. Students can discriminate major ethical and professional guidelines, principles, and standards. They can also generate appropriate responses to ethically challenging situations. 4. Students will apply forensic evidence analysis and interpretations in the legal setting and produce and critique written and verbal expert testimony. Required Courses: (36 credits)FORS 6612 - Principles of Forensic Science IFORS 6613 - Principles of Forensic Science IIFORS 6616 - Advanced Crime Scene InvestigationFORS 6617 - Forensic Expert TestimonyFORS 6618 - Forensic PhotographyFORS 6626 - Crime Scene ReconstructionFORS 6653 - Physical Analysis in Forensic ScienceFORS 6661 - Medicolegal Investigation and IdentificationFORS 6663 - Forensic Field TechnologyFORS 6664 - Forensic Field Technology LaboratoryFORS 6686 - Forensic Science Research Project IOrFORS 6688 - Forensic Science Internship ICJST 6608 - Law and EvidenceOrCJST 6651 - Criminal ProcedureCategory I Restricted Electives (select one): (3 credits)FORS 6642 - Wildlife ForensicsFORS 6651 - Forensic ArchaeologyFORS 6652 - Forensic AnthropologyFORS 6655 - Firearm Evidence AnalysisCategory II Restricted Elective (select one): (3 credits)FORS 6634 - Bloodstain Pattern AnalysisFORS 6670 - Selected TopicsFORS 6695 - Independent Study Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Advisor: Pavani Rangachari, Ph.D., University at Albany, State University of New York (SUNY) Program Outcomes Students will demonstrate competence in understanding health systems and organizations. Students will demonstrate competence in understanding organizational climate and culture. Students will demonstrate competence in healthcare information technology. Students will demonstrate competence in healthcare financial management. Students will demonstrate competence in health law and policy. Students will demonstrate competence in personal and professional accountability. Students will demonstrate competence in data analysis. Students will demonstrate competence in communication and relationship management. Students will demonstrate competence in critical thinking and decision making. Students will demonstrate competence in leadership skills and behavior. A total of 36 graduate credits is required for completion of the master of healthcare administration. The program consists of eleven required courses (33 credits) plus one restricted elective (3 credits). Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse, M.S. The Master of Science in Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Investigations was a collaboration with public and private sector groups involved with the deterrence, detection, and investigation of healthcare fraud in the U.S. healthcare system. The annual estimate of healthcare FWA was a staggering $120 billion prior to the Covid-19 pandemic and is expected to exceed $800 billion during the course of the pandemic. The public and private sectors are looking for qualified individuals in this field. 30 credit hours NOTE: This program is offered in an online format only. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: The student will be able to describe the steps necessary for a thorough investigation. The student will be able to identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. The student will be able to define the legal requirements for investigations. The student will be able to critique an investigation. Required Courses (24 credits)INVS 6635 - Healthcare Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6637 - Anatomy of Healthcare FraudINVS 6638 - Electronic Files and Healthcare FraudINVS 6643 - Healthcare Fraud AnalyticsINVS 6663 - Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Trends and SchemesINVS 6664 - Fraud, Waste, and Abuse in the U.S. Healthcare Delivery SystemINVS 6665 - Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse and Compliance FailuresINVS 6667 - Fraud Waste and Abuse Interview/Interrogation, Testifying, and Report Writing (Capstone Course)Elective Courses (6 credits) Two free electives (six credits total) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Human Resources, M.S., Employee Relations (STEM) Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Human Resources is designed to prepare professionals to advance their careers in the field of human resources. The program emphasizes the strategic role that human resources plays in the achievement of a firm's competitive strategy, while providing students with the knowledge and skills needed to be effective human resource leaders. Specific focus will be on the emerging set of human resource competencies and skills needed to navigate the evolving human resources field including globalization, diversity and inclusion, corporate social responsibility, and strategic leadership. Students will examine each of the major human resources functional areas including recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits, performance management, employee relations, change management, and learning and development. Students will also learn about key human resource processes, human resource analytics, and the set of skills needed to be a strategic business partner with an organization's business lines and other enabling functions. This program requires 36 graduate credits: 21 credits from core courses, 12 credits from one of three concentrations, and 3 credits from a restricted elective. Program Outcomes: By the end of the program students will be able to: 1. Exhibit sophisticated knowledge of HR/business management practices that lead to professional HR career-related success. 2. Employ strategic thinking necessary to be an effective business partner. 3. Demonstrate reasoning leading to ethical, legal and socially responsible decision-making. 4. Demonstrate compelling oral and written communication capabilities. (For the Talent Management Concentration) 5. Create plans to recruit, hire, train, retain, and motivate a diverse and global workforce. (For the Organizational Leadership Concentration) 5. Demonstrate interaction skills in working effectively with others and change management skills in such a way as to be influential in a leadership capacity. (For the Employee Relations Concentration) 5. Effectively utilize and apply conflict intervention and negotiation strategies in the management and resolution of workplace disputes. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Human Resources, M.S., Organizational Leadership Concentration The Master of Science in Human Resources is designed to prepare professionals to advance their careers in the field of human resources. The program emphasizes the strategic role that human resources plays in the achievement of a firm's competitive strategy, while providing students with the knowledge and skills needed to be effective human resource leaders. Specific focus will be on the emerging set of human resource competencies and skills needed to navigate the evolving human resources field including globalization, diversity and inclusion, corporate social responsibility, and strategic leadership. Students will examine each of the major human resources functional areas including recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits, performance management, employee relations, change management, and learning and development. Students will also learn about key human resource processes, human resource analytics, and the set of skills needed to be a strategic business partner with an organization's business lines and other enabling functions. This program requires 36 graduate credits: 21 credits from core courses, 12 credits from one of three concentrations, and 3 credits from a restricted elective. Program Outcomes: By the end of the program students will be able to: 1. Exhibit sophisticated knowledge of HR/business management practices that lead to professional HR career-related success. 2. Employ strategic thinking necessary to be an effective business partner. 3. Demonstrate reasoning leading to ethical, legal and socially responsible decision-making. 4. Demonstrate compelling oral and written communication capabilities. (For the Talent Management Concentration) 5. Create plans to recruit, hire, train, retain, and motivate a diverse and global workforce. (For the Organizational Leadership Concentration) 5. Demonstrate interaction skills in working effectively with others and change management skills in such a way as to be influential in a leadership capacity. (For the Employee Relations Concentration) 5. Effectively utilize and apply conflict intervention and negotiation strategies in the management and resolution of workplace disputes. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Human Resources, M.S., Talent Management Concentration The Master of Science in Human Resources is designed to prepare professionals to advance their careers in the field of human resources. The program emphasizes the strategic role that human resources plays in the achievement of a firm's competitive strategy, while providing students with the knowledge and skills needed to be effective human resource leaders. Specific focus will be on the emerging set of human resource competencies and skills needed to navigate the evolving human resources field including globalization, diversity and inclusion, corporate social responsibility, and strategic leadership. Students will examine each of the major human resources functional areas including recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits, performance management, employee relations, change management, and learning and development. Students will also learn about key human resource processes, human resource analytics, and the set of skills needed to be a strategic business partner with an organization's business lines and other enabling functions. This program requires 36 graduate credits: 21 credits from core courses, 12 credits from one of three concentrations, and 3 credits from a restricted elective. Program Outcomes: By the end of the program students will be able to: 1. Exhibit sophisticated knowledge of HR/business management practices that lead to professional HR career-related success. 2. Employ strategic thinking necessary to be an effective business partner. 3. Demonstrate reasoning leading to ethical, legal and socially responsible decision-making. 4. Demonstrate compelling oral and written communication capabilities. (For the Talent Management Concentration) 5. Create plans to recruit, hire, train, retain, and motivate a diverse and global workforce. (For the Organizational Leadership Concentration) 5. Demonstrate interaction skills in working effectively with others and change management skills in such a way as to be influential in a leadership capacity. (For the Employee Relations Concentration) 5. Effectively utilize and apply conflict intervention and negotiation strategies in the management and resolution of workplace disputes. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Industrial Engineering discipline in its modern form contributes to the design, building, operation, management, and optimization of complex systems in all sectors of modern life, including manufacturing, government, education, aerospace, transportation, logistics, and service industries. The MSIE program provides graduate education and training for industrial engineers with a Bachelor's degree, and for engineers and scientists in other disciplines who seek advanced course work in systems engineering and optimization, quality assurance, lean six sigma, manufacturing, operational analytics, engineering management, procurement, and the efficient use of both human and technological resources. The program offers excellent preparation for advancement in manufacturing and service organizations and for those seeking management positions in operations, supply chain, and technology. Program Outcomes Create value by identifing systems problems in organizations (manufacturing, production, service, governmental, etc.) and contributing to their solutions using industrial engineering principles, tools and methods. Apply quality tools and methods in improving processes. Perform probability and statistical decision analysis using software and advanced tools such as statistics, simulation and design of experiments. Manage business processes such as production, supply chain, and logistics operations. Students must complete a minimum total of 30 graduate credits. Students can choose between two concentrations: general or systems engineering. MSIE Program Placement For candidates holding the BSIE (or BSISE), or similar degree, with a GPA of 3.0 or higher from an ABET-accredited program, the MSIE can be earned by successfully completing 30 credit hours of course and project work consisting of 21 credits of core courses and 9 credits of elective courses. Candidates not holding a BSIE from an ABET-accredited program and candidates holding a BSIE from an ABET accredited program but with inadequate preparation in foundational areas would be required to complete up to an additional 6 credits of foundational courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Required non-foundation courses cannot be waived, but transfer credit and substitutions may apply. See the University transfer credit policy for more information. M.S.I.E. Program Components Program Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)INDE 6607 - Probability TheoryINDE 6609 - Descriptive and Inferential StatisticsProgram Core Courses (21 credits)INDE 6605 - Computing and Modeling in Industrial EngineeringINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisINDE 6681 - System SimulationINDE 6684 - Laboratory-INDE 6681INDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsSelect one of two concentrations (9 credits):General ConcentrationSelect 3 elective courses. The remaining credits beyond the core courses may be taken from the industrial engineering courses listed below or other closely related disciplines with the approval of the MSIE program coordinator. The following is a partial listing of elective courses which may change as the program evolves:INDE 6617 - Engineering Economic Analysis and Cost EstimatingINDE 6623 - Decision AnalysisINDE 6627 - Value Engineering and DesignINDE 6628 - Sigma Six Quality PlanningINDE 6630 - Project and Risk ManagementINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6636 - Model Based DesignINDE 6639 - Achieving Optimal OperationsINDE 6640 - Lean Six SigmaINDE 6643 - Reliability and MaintainabilityINDE 6645 - Data AnalyticsINDE 6647 - Supply Chain Analytics and ResilienceINDE 6651 - Human Engineering ISystems Engineering ConcentrationINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6636 - Model Based DesignResearch Project RequirementThe project requirement of the program is met through INDE 6681, a required project course. Students who wish to go beyond the minimum graduation requirement of the Research Project within a course may elect to undertake an additional 3 credits of INDE 6690 (Research Project) working on a topic of interest with a faculty advisor. Projects involving scenarios from an industrial or corporate setting are encouraged. Students looking to pursue the Ph.D. program may, with concurrence of the program advisor, elect to enroll in 3-6 credits, INDE 6698 (Thesis I) and INDE 6699 (Thesis II). Students are strongly advised to discuss this option with the program advisor early on, potentially as early as the first semester of the MS study, to have sufficient time to invest in the process of research, write-up, and defense of the thesis. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial/Organizational Psychology, M.A., General Concentration M.A. Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram Goals 1. Students will master theory and techniques related to core areas of industrial-organizational psychology including talent identification and development, work motivation, training, human capital practices, organization and group behavior. 2. Students will learn how to employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities such as internships, practicum projects, case studies, and applied research projects. 3. Students will conduct applied organizational research and accurately interpret research used to make business decisions. A total of 42 credits is required of candidates for the master of arts degree in industrial/organizational psychology. Candidates for this degree must complete 24 credits of basic program requirements. Another 18 credits (including concentrations, program options, and electives) are chosen after consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student's academic and professional goals. Students may not complete more than nine credits of electives until they have satisfied the basic requirements. Up to nine credits of electives may be taken in other departments, such as industrial engineering, economics, management, marketing, business analytics and public administration. Transfer Credit The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer of credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog Thesis Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. The thesis must show ability to organize materials in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Program Options Students have the opportunity to develop a program that meets their particular needs and interests by choosing from many elective courses and various program options. These options include a thesis, for those interested in future pursuit of a doctoral degree; an internship, for those interested in a practical introduction to an organizational environment; or a practicum, for those already employed. Option 1 (Thesis) is intended primarily for those who are interested in continuing their education in doctoral-level programs. This option gives students the research experience necessary to be successful in pursuit of admission to and completion of a Ph.D. program. Option 2 (Internship/Practicum) allows the student to acquire special skills by coordinating formal course work with an internship or practicum in an organizational setting. The internship gives the student with limited work experience opportunity to work in cooperating organizations or consulting firms. The practicum experience is for the student who is currently employed. The content of the practicum or internship is established jointly by the cooperating organization, the program coordinator, and the student. A comprehensive project report is required in which the student analyzes and integrates internship/practicum experiences with relevant research and coursework. Option 3 (Approved Electives) consists of elective courses selected under faculty advisement. The choice of electives is intended to provide the student with a broad interdisciplinary background, complementing the student's own academic training and interests. A comprehensive examination covering material from the required psychology courses is required under this option. Program Concentrations Within each program option described above, students may concentrate in industrial-human resources, organizational development, conflict management, or talent analytics. A concentration requires 12 credits of electives, which are counted as part of the 18 credits required in the elective option (Thesis, Internship/Practicum, or Approved Electives) selected by the student. If a concentration is selected, the student must notify the program coordinator as well as the Registrar. A concentration is not required if the student's educational or career goals can best be met without this specialization. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1) Apply core industrial-organization psychology models, practices and techniques to understand and solve IO- related Psychology problems. 2) Employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities. 3) Employ statistical and research methods to conduct applied organizational research that can be accurately interpreted and used to make business decisions. Required Courses (24 credits)ECON 6625 - Industrial RelationsorPSYC 6626 - Worker Well-Being PSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological Science *PSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6620 - Industrial PsychologyPSYC 6635 - Psychological Tests and Measurements in OrganizationsPSYC 6645 - Seminar in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyPSYC 6660 - Contemporary Issues in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram option** (18 credits)Option 1 (Thesis)PSYC 6698 - Thesis IPSYC 6699 - Thesis IIElectives ** (12 credits)Option 2 (Internship/Practicum)PSYC 6693 - Organizational Internship IPSYC 6694 - Organizational Internship IIorPSYC 6678 - Practicum I Electives ** (15 credits)Option 3 (Approved Electives) Comprehensive examination required Electives ** (18 credits) Note(s):*Undergraduate preparation in statistics is prerequisite. **Chosen in consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student’s academic and professional goals.General Concentration Electives (12 credits) Consult with the program coordinator to select electives in light of your academic and professional goals. These 12 required concentration credits count toward the program option selected. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial/Organizational Psychology, M.A., Industrial-Human Resources Psychology Concentration M.A. Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram Goals 1. Students will master theory and techniques related to core areas of industrial-organizational psychology including talent identification and development, work motivation, training, human capital practices, organization and group behavior. 2. Students will learn how to employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities such as internships, practicum projects, case studies, and applied research projects. 3. Students will conduct applied organizational research and accurately interpret research used to make business decisions. A total of 42 credits is required of candidates for the master of arts degree in industrial/organizational psychology. Candidates for this degree must complete 24 credits of basic program requirements. Another 18 credits (including concentrations, program options, and electives) are chosen after consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student's academic and professional goals. Students may not complete more than nine credits of electives until they have satisfied the basic requirements. Up to nine credits of electives may be taken in other departments, such as industrial engineering, economics, management, marketing, business analytics and public administration. Transfer Credit The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer of credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog Thesis Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. The thesis must show ability to organize materials in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Program Options Students have the opportunity to develop a program that meets their particular needs and interests by choosing from many elective courses and various program options. These options include a thesis, for those interested in future pursuit of a doctoral degree; an internship, for those interested in a practical introduction to an organizational environment; or a practicum, for those already employed. Option 1 (Thesis) is intended primarily for those who are interested in continuing their education in doctoral-level programs. This option gives students the research experience necessary to be successful in pursuit of admission to and completion of a Ph.D. program. Option 2 (Internship/Practicum) allows the student to acquire special skills by coordinating formal course work with an internship or practicum in an organizational setting. The internship gives the student with limited work experience opportunity to work in cooperating organizations or consulting firms. The practicum experience is for the student who is currently employed. The content of the practicum or internship is established jointly by the cooperating organization, the program coordinator, and the student. A comprehensive project report is required in which the student analyzes and integrates internship/practicum experiences with relevant research and coursework. Option 3 (Approved Electives) consists of elective courses selected under faculty advisement. The choice of electives is intended to provide the student with a broad interdisciplinary background, complementing the student's own academic training and interests. A comprehensive examination covering material from the required psychology courses is required under this option. Program Concentrations Within each program option described above, students may concentrate in industrial-human resources, organizational development, conflict management, or talent analytics. A concentration requires 12 credits of electives, which are counted as part of the 18 credits required in the elective option (Thesis, Internship/Practicum, or Approved Electives) selected by the student. If a concentration is selected, the student must notify the program coordinator as well as the Registrar. A concentration is not required if the student's educational or career goals can best be met without this specialization. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1) Apply core industrial-organization psychology models, practices and techniques to understand and solve IO- related Psychology problems. 2) Employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities. 3) Employ statistical and research methods to conduct applied organizational research that can be accurately interpreted and used to make business decisions. Required Courses (24 credits)ECON 6625 - Industrial RelationsorPSYC 6626 - Worker Well-Being PSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological Science *PSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6620 - Industrial PsychologyPSYC 6635 - Psychological Tests and Measurements in OrganizationsPSYC 6645 - Seminar in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyPSYC 6660 - Contemporary Issues in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram option** (18 credits)Option 1 (Thesis)PSYC 6698 - Thesis IPSYC 6699 - Thesis IIElectives ** (12 credits)Option 2 (Internship/Practicum)PSYC 6693 - Organizational Internship IPSYC 6694 - Organizational Internship IIorPSYC 6678 - Practicum I Electives ** (15 credits)Option 3 (Approved Electives) Comprehensive examination required Electives ** (18 credits) Note(s):*Undergraduate preparation in statistics is prerequisite. **Chosen in consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student’s academic and professional goals.Concentration in Industrial-Human Resources PsychologyThese 12 required concentration credits count toward the program option selected:PSYC 6641 - Training and Development in OrganizationsPSYC 6644 - Performance Management ProcessesPlus two of the following: MGMT 6645 - Management of Human ResourcesPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6628 - The InterviewPSYC 6640 - Workplace Motivation and Attitudes Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial/Organizational Psychology, M.A., Organizational Development and Consultation Concentration M.A. Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram Goals 1. Students will master theory and techniques related to core areas of industrial-organizational psychology including talent identification and development, work motivation, training, human capital practices, organization and group behavior. 2. Students will learn how to employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities such as internships, practicum projects, case studies, and applied research projects. 3. Students will conduct applied organizational research and accurately interpret research used to make business decisions. A total of 42 credits is required of candidates for the master of arts degree in industrial/organizational psychology. Candidates for this degree must complete 24 credits of basic program requirements. Another 18 credits (including concentrations, program options, and electives) are chosen after consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student's academic and professional goals. Students may not complete more than nine credits of electives until they have satisfied the basic requirements. Up to nine credits of electives may be taken in other departments, such as industrial engineering, economics, management, marketing, business analytics and public administration. Transfer Credit The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer of credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog Thesis Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. The thesis must show ability to organize materials in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Program Options Students have the opportunity to develop a program that meets their particular needs and interests by choosing from many elective courses and various program options. These options include a thesis, for those interested in future pursuit of a doctoral degree; an internship, for those interested in a practical introduction to an organizational environment; or a practicum, for those already employed. Option 1 (Thesis) is intended primarily for those who are interested in continuing their education in doctoral-level programs. This option gives students the research experience necessary to be successful in pursuit of admission to and completion of a Ph.D. program. Option 2 (Internship/Practicum) allows the student to acquire special skills by coordinating formal course work with an internship or practicum in an organizational setting. The internship gives the student with limited work experience opportunity to work in cooperating organizations or consulting firms. The practicum experience is for the student who is currently employed. The content of the practicum or internship is established jointly by the cooperating organization, the program coordinator, and the student. A comprehensive project report is required in which the student analyzes and integrates internship/practicum experiences with relevant research and coursework. Option 3 (Approved Electives) consists of elective courses selected under faculty advisement. The choice of electives is intended to provide the student with a broad interdisciplinary background, complementing the student's own academic training and interests. A comprehensive examination covering material from the required psychology courses is required under this option. Program Concentrations Within each program option described above, students may concentrate in industrial-human resources, organizational development, conflict management, or talent analytics. A concentration requires 12 credits of electives, which are counted as part of the 18 credits required in the elective option (Thesis, Internship/Practicum, or Approved Electives) selected by the student. If a concentration is selected, the student must notify the program coordinator as well as the Registrar. A concentration is not required if the student's educational or career goals can best be met without this specialization. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1) Apply core industrial-organization psychology models, practices and techniques to understand and solve IO- related Psychology problems. 2) Employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities. 3) Employ statistical and research methods to conduct applied organizational research that can be accurately interpreted and used to make business decisions. Required Courses (24 credits)ECON 6625 - Industrial RelationsorPSYC 6626 - Worker Well-Being PSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological Science *PSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6620 - Industrial PsychologyPSYC 6635 - Psychological Tests and Measurements in OrganizationsPSYC 6645 - Seminar in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyPSYC 6660 - Contemporary Issues in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram option** (18 credits)Option 1 (Thesis)PSYC 6698 - Thesis IPSYC 6699 - Thesis IIElectives ** (12 credits)Option 2 (Internship/Practicum)PSYC 6693 - Organizational Internship IPSYC 6694 - Organizational Internship IIorPSYC 6678 - Practicum I Electives ** (15 credits)Option 3 (Approved Electives) Comprehensive examination required Electives ** (18 credits) Note(s):*Undergraduate preparation in statistics is prerequisite. **Chosen in consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student’s academic and professional goals.Concentration in Organizational Development and ConsultationThese 12 required concentration credits count toward the program option selected:PSYC 6642 - Organizational Change and DevelopmentPSYC 6612 - Consultation SeminarPlus two of the following: MGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingPSYC 6623 - Psychology of the Small GroupPSYC 6624 - Exploring Group DynamicsPSYC 6638 - Psychology of Communication and Influence in OrganizationsPSYC 6640 - Workplace Motivation and AttitudesPSYC 6641 - Training and Development in OrganizationsPSYC 6643 - The Psychology of Conflict Resolution Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial/Organizational Psychology, M.A., Talent Analytics Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php M.A. Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram Goals 1. Students will master theory and techniques related to core areas of industrial-organizational psychology including talent identification and development, work motivation, training, human capital practices, organization and group behavior. 2. Students will learn how to employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities such as internships, practicum projects, case studies, and applied research projects. 3. Students will conduct applied organizational research and accurately interpret research used to make business decisions. A total of 42 credits is required of candidates for the master of arts degree in industrial/organizational psychology. Candidates for this degree must complete 24 credits of basic program requirements. Another 18 credits (including concentrations, program options, and electives) are chosen after consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student's academic and professional goals. Students may not complete more than nine credits of electives until they have satisfied the basic requirements. Up to nine credits of electives may be taken in other departments, such as industrial engineering, economics, management, marketing, business analytics and public administration. Transfer Credit The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer of credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog Thesis Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. The thesis must show ability to organize materials in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Program Options Students have the opportunity to develop a program that meets their particular needs and interests by choosing from many elective courses and various program options. These options include a thesis, for those interested in future pursuit of a doctoral degree; an internship, for those interested in a practical introduction to an organizational environment; or a practicum, for those already employed. Option 1 (Thesis) is intended primarily for those who are interested in continuing their education in doctoral-level programs. This option gives students the research experience necessary to be successful in pursuit of admission to and completion of a Ph.D. program. Option 2 (Internship/Practicum) allows the student to acquire special skills by coordinating formal course work with an internship or practicum in an organizational setting. The internship gives the student with limited work experience opportunity to work in cooperating organizations or consulting firms. The practicum experience is for the student who is currently employed. The content of the practicum or internship is established jointly by the cooperating organization, the program coordinator, and the student. A comprehensive project report is required in which the student analyzes and integrates internship/practicum experiences with relevant research and coursework. Option 3 (Approved Electives) consists of elective courses selected under faculty advisement. The choice of electives is intended to provide the student with a broad interdisciplinary background, complementing the student's own academic training and interests. A comprehensive examination covering material from the required psychology courses is required under this option. Program Concentrations Within each program option described above, students may concentrate in industrial-human resources, organizational development, conflict management, or talent analytics. A concentration requires 12 credits of electives, which are counted as part of the 18 credits required in the elective option (Thesis, Internship/Practicum, or Approved Electives) selected by the student. If a concentration is selected, the student must notify the program coordinator as well as the Registrar. A concentration is not required if the student's educational or career goals can best be met without this specialization. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1) Apply core industrial-organization psychology models, practices and techniques to understand and solve IO- related Psychology problems. 2) Employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities. 3) Employ statistical and research methods to conduct applied organizational research that can be accurately interpreted and used to make business decisions. Required Courses (24 credits)ECON 6625 - Industrial RelationsorPSYC 6626 - Worker Well-Being PSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological Science *PSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6620 - Industrial PsychologyPSYC 6635 - Psychological Tests and Measurements in OrganizationsPSYC 6645 - Seminar in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyPSYC 6660 - Contemporary Issues in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram option** (18 credits)Option 1 (Thesis)PSYC 6698 - Thesis IPSYC 6699 - Thesis IIElectives ** (12 credits)Option 2 (Internship/Practicum)PSYC 6693 - Organizational Internship IPSYC 6694 - Organizational Internship IIorPSYC 6678 - Practicum I Electives ** (15 credits)Option 3 (Approved Electives) Comprehensive examination required Electives ** (18 credits) Note(s):*Undergraduate preparation in statistics is prerequisite. **Chosen in consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student’s academic and professional goals.Concentration in Talent AnalyticsStudents choosing this STEM eligible concentration will be able to apply techniques of data analytics to workplace and talent management. Specifically, students will be equipped with knowledge and skills needed to source, analyze, and visualize workplace related data to inform decisions and make recommendations that will enhance organizational success. As an interdisciplinary concentration, it will make use of existing resources in the Pompea College of Business and the Tagliatela College of Engineering, along with specific applications to I/O psychology and talent management. Upon completion of this concentration students will be able to: 1. Examine current tools and techniques in talent analytics, including descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics, data visualization and storytelling with data. 2. Develop knowledge and skill in analyzing data to interpret trends and predict outcomes related to the talent management practices driving workforce success 3. Apply data analytics tools to inform workplace practices and policies. These 12 required concentration credits count toward the program option selected:BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligencePSYC 6652 - Talent Analytics Applications Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial/Organizational Psychology, M.A., The Psychology of Conflict Management Concentration M.A. Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram Goals 1. Students will master theory and techniques related to core areas of industrial-organizational psychology including talent identification and development, work motivation, training, human capital practices, organization and group behavior. 2. Students will learn how to employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities such as internships, practicum projects, case studies, and applied research projects. 3. Students will conduct applied organizational research and accurately interpret research used to make business decisions. A total of 42 credits is required of candidates for the master of arts degree in industrial/organizational psychology. Candidates for this degree must complete 24 credits of basic program requirements. Another 18 credits (including concentrations, program options, and electives) are chosen after consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student's academic and professional goals. Students may not complete more than nine credits of electives until they have satisfied the basic requirements. Up to nine credits of electives may be taken in other departments, such as industrial engineering, economics, management, marketing, business analytics and public administration. Transfer Credit The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer of credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog Thesis Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. The thesis must show ability to organize materials in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Program Options Students have the opportunity to develop a program that meets their particular needs and interests by choosing from many elective courses and various program options. These options include a thesis, for those interested in future pursuit of a doctoral degree; an internship, for those interested in a practical introduction to an organizational environment; or a practicum, for those already employed. Option 1 (Thesis) is intended primarily for those who are interested in continuing their education in doctoral-level programs. This option gives students the research experience necessary to be successful in pursuit of admission to and completion of a Ph.D. program. Option 2 (Internship/Practicum) allows the student to acquire special skills by coordinating formal course work with an internship or practicum in an organizational setting. The internship gives the student with limited work experience opportunity to work in cooperating organizations or consulting firms. The practicum experience is for the student who is currently employed. The content of the practicum or internship is established jointly by the cooperating organization, the program coordinator, and the student. A comprehensive project report is required in which the student analyzes and integrates internship/practicum experiences with relevant research and coursework. Option 3 (Approved Electives) consists of elective courses selected under faculty advisement. The choice of electives is intended to provide the student with a broad interdisciplinary background, complementing the student's own academic training and interests. A comprehensive examination covering material from the required psychology courses is required under this option. Program Concentrations Within each program option described above, students may concentrate in industrial-human resources, organizational development, conflict management, or talent analytics. A concentration requires 12 credits of electives, which are counted as part of the 18 credits required in the elective option (Thesis, Internship/Practicum, or Approved Electives) selected by the student. If a concentration is selected, the student must notify the program coordinator as well as the Registrar. A concentration is not required if the student's educational or career goals can best be met without this specialization. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1) Apply core industrial-organization psychology models, practices and techniques to understand and solve IO- related Psychology problems. 2) Employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities. 3) Employ statistical and research methods to conduct applied organizational research that can be accurately interpreted and used to make business decisions. Required Courses (24 credits)ECON 6625 - Industrial RelationsorPSYC 6626 - Worker Well-Being PSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological Science *PSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6620 - Industrial PsychologyPSYC 6635 - Psychological Tests and Measurements in OrganizationsPSYC 6645 - Seminar in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyPSYC 6660 - Contemporary Issues in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram option** (18 credits)Option 1 (Thesis)PSYC 6698 - Thesis IPSYC 6699 - Thesis IIElectives ** (12 credits)Option 2 (Internship/Practicum)PSYC 6693 - Organizational Internship IPSYC 6694 - Organizational Internship IIorPSYC 6678 - Practicum I Electives ** (15 credits)Option 3 (Approved Electives) Comprehensive examination required Electives ** (18 credits) Note(s):*Undergraduate preparation in statistics is prerequisite. **Chosen in consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student’s academic and professional goals.Concentration in The Psychology of Conflict ManagementThese 12 required concentration credits count toward the program option selected:PSYC 6643 - The Psychology of Conflict ResolutionPSYC 6646 - The Psychology of Negotiation and MediationPlus two of the following: MGMT 6667 - Multicultural Issues in the WorkplacePSYC 6612 - Consultation SeminarPSYC 6623 - Psychology of the Small GroupPSYC 6638 - Psychology of Communication and Influence in OrganizationsPSYC 6640 - Workplace Motivation and AttitudesPSYC 6647 - Industrial and Organizational Psychology in Global SettingsPSCI 6655 - Conflict Resolution Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Information Science, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The M.S. in Information Science requires 36 credits, including 21 credits of required core courses and 15 credits from one of three focus areas. Program Outcomes By the end of the program, students will be able to: Convert a problem specification into the program language needed to address it. Employ data visualization techniques to make decisions. Develop a dashboard to inform decisions. Develop a plan for creating business and social value with UX driven opportunities. Apply an ethical decision-making process to ambiguous situations in the information space. Develop a plan for an organization's curation and control of information. Organize a solution employing leadership techniques to address an organization's response to a real-world problem. Core Courses (21 credits)The following courses are required:INFS 6601 - Foundation of Information ScienceCSCI 6604 - Introduction to Programming/CDSGN 6601 - User Experience and Product ResearchCSCI 6610 - Intermediate Programming: C/C++DSCI 6006 - Leadership and EntrepreneurismBANL 6710 - Digital Story Telling with TableauINFS 6610 - Information Science CapstoneElective Courses (15 credits)UX DesignThe following three courses are strongly recommended for the UX Design focus area:DSGN 6602 - Utility and Usability: Human-Centered Design & PrototypingDSGN 6603 - User Interface and Interaction DesignDSGN 6606 - User Experience Design EthicsSelect two additional courses (6 credits total) from either the Business Analytics or Information Technology focus area, in consultation with your academic advisor.Business AnalyticsThe following three courses are strongly recommended for the Business Analytics focus area:BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceAny DSGN 6000-level course not already required in the core Select two of the following courses:BANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementECON 6635 - Business ForecastingSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsInformation TechnologyThe following three courses are strongly recommended for the Information Technology focus area:CSCI 6622 - Database SystemsCSCI 6646 - Introduction to Computer SecurityCSCI 6651 - Introduction to Script Programming/Python Select two of the following courses:CSCI 6617 - Java ProgrammingCSCI 6620 - Data StructuresCSCI 6634 - Cryptography and Data SecurityCSCI 6642 - Computer Networks and Data CommunicationCSCI 6643 - Operating Systems Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Investigations, M.S., Criminal Investigations Concentration Investigation is a broad interdisciplinary field in which students learn how to identify, collect, and analyze evidence in civil and criminal cases. The program includes thee concentrations: criminal investigations, financial crimes investigations, and digital forensic investigations. Each concentration focuses on a specific area of specialized investigations and is designed to prepare students for investigative careers in one of the areas of specialization. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 30 credits of graduate work, which includes a required capstone requirement. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: Know the steps necessary for a thorough investigation. Identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. Know the legal requirements for investigations. Critique an investigation. Conduct an investigative interview. Obtain entry level employment in Investigations related areas of employment. Required Courses (15 credits)INVS 6631 - Investigations IINVS 6651 - Criminal ProcedureINVS 6607 - Supervising and Managing the Investigative Unit and ProcessINVS 6614 - Survey of Forensic ScienceINVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsConcentration in Criminal Investigations (15 credits)INVS 6632 - Advanced Investigation IINVS 6633 - Advanced Investigation IIPlus three additional electives (9 credits) approved by the advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Investigations, M.S., Digital Forensic Investigations Concentration Investigation is a broad interdisciplinary field in which students learn how to identify, collect, and analyze evidence in civil and criminal cases. The program includes thee concentrations: criminal investigations, financial crimes investigations, and digital forensic investigations. Each concentration focuses on a specific area of specialized investigations and is designed to prepare students for investigative careers in one of the areas of specialization. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 30 credits of graduate work, which includes a required capstone requirement. Required Courses (30 credits)INVS 6653 - Internet Vulnerabilities and Criminal Activity INVS 6631 - Investigations IorINVS 6604 - Contemporary Topics in Corporate Investigations INVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsINVS 6650 - Regulation and Occupational FraudINVS 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation ProceduresINVS 6611 - Contemporary Topics in Cybercrime Investigations INVS 6652 - Network Security, Data Protection, and TelecommunicationsorINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV World Plus three additional electives (9 credits) approved by the advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Investigations, M.S., Financial Crimes Investigations Concentration Investigation is a broad interdisciplinary field in which students learn how to identify, collect, and analyze evidence in civil and criminal cases. The program includes thee concentrations: criminal investigations, financial crimes investigations, and digital forensics investigations. Each concentration focuses on a specific area of specialized investigations and is designed to prepare students for investigative careers in one of the areas of specialization. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 30 credits of graduate work, which includes a required capstone requirement. Students enrolling in the financial crimes investigations concentration who have no previous accounting education should be familiar with the basic understanding of the accounting concepts (financial statements, the elements of financial reporting), and the basics of the accounting process. PROGRAM OUTCOMES Upon completion of the program, graduates will have learned how to: Identify the various financial/white collar crime typologies Evaluate correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations Prepare prosecutorial or internal reports Analyze the legal requirements for investigations Financial Crimes Core Courses (9 credits)INVS 6603 - Contemporary Topics in Money Laundering INVS 6631 - Investigations IorINVS 6604 - Contemporary Topics in Corporate Investigations INVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsConcentration Electives (12 credits)Select 12 credits from one of the following tracks:Financial Crimes Investigations Track:INVS 6630 - Investigating Financial CrimesINVS 6627 - Identity Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV WorldINVS 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation Procedures ORINVS 6680 - Foundations of Digital Forensics Investigations White Collar Crime Track:INVS 6601 - White Collar Crime AnalyticsINVS 6602 - Contemporary Fraud SchemesINVS 6650 - Regulation and Occupational FraudINVS 6624 - E-Discovery InvestigationsElectives (9 credits) 3 graduate credits from any INVS-prefixed course 6 graduate credits from any program at UNH Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Marine Policy and Management, M.A., Marine Education and Outreach Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The degree requires the completion of a minimum of 34 credits. Students can choose between a thesis or non-thesis track. Students who elect the thesis track must carry out an original thesis research project, under the guidance of a thesis mentor, by taking a minimum of 6 credit hours of thesis related research courses: MPMA 6698 Thesis Research I and MPMA 6699 Thesis Research II, over a minimum of two academic terms. The thesis track can be elected after a minimum of 9 credits hours of graduate study with a minimum GPA of 3.3 and approval of the program coordinator. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the Graduate School policy on theses as well as all requirements for the department. Students choosing a non-thesis track are required to take a minimum of 6 credit hours in lieu of the Thesis Research courses to be determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Non-thesis students will be required to produce a major paper, or another capstone project developed in consultation with the program coordinator. A 1-year accelerated non-thesis option is also available. Marine Education and Outreach Concentration The Marine Education and Outreach Concentration prepares students for careers in informal environmental education, and science communication and outreach with a focus on marine and coastal environments. This concentration also prepares students to conduct research or continue their studies in the fields of environmental education and outreach. Program Outcomes By graduation students will be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of the most important theoretical approaches involving the human dimensions of marine ecosystems. Apply policy and management strategies to address complex problems in marine sustainability. Employ methods of scientific inquiry and research design in social science to answer research questions to inform and advance marine policy and management. Analyze quantitative and qualitative human dimensions data to infer and forecast on social phenomena affecting marine policy and management. Synthesize results and outcomes of relevant research to propose solutions for complex problems in marine sustainability from a human dimensions perspective. Required CoursesMPMA 6604 - Human Dimensions of Marine EcosystemsMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal LawENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryMPMA 6606 - Environmental and Natural Resource EconomicsMPMA 6600 - Research Methods in Marine Social ScienceMPMA 6614 - Data Analysis and Presentation in Marine Social ScienceMPMA 6603 - Science CommunicationENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsMPMA 6634 - Marine Environmental EducationThesis TrackStudents on the Thesis Track must take 6 credits of Thesis Research over the course of two academic terms under the guidance of a thesis mentor.MPMA 6698 - Thesis Research IMPMA 6699 - Thesis Research IINon-Thesis TrackStudents on the Non-Thesis Track must take 3 credits of Capstone Research and complete a major paper under the guidance of a mentor. In addition, they must complete another 3 credits chosen from the electives group in consultation with their major paper mentor and program coordinator.MPMA 6688 - Capstone ProjectPlus select one course from the following group of electives:MPMA 6681 - Independent StudyMPMA 6683 - Marine Policy and Management PracticumENVS 6634 - Environmental Education Instructor ClinicMPMA 6608 - Marine Coastal Resource ManagementMPMA 6609 - Marine Fisheries PolicyMPMA 6612 - Global ChangeMPMA 6610 - Human Ecology of Coastal SystemsENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IMPMA 6635 - Environmental and Social Justice Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Marine Policy and Management, M.A., Marine Resource Sustainability Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The degree requires the completion of a minimum of 34 credits. Students can choose between a thesis or non-thesis track. Students who elect the thesis track must carry out an original thesis research project under the guidance of a thesis mentor, by taking a minimum of 6 credit hours of thesis related research courses: MPMA 6698 Thesis Research I and MPMA 6699 Thesis Research II, over a minimum of two academic terms. The thesis track can be elected after a minimum of 9 credits hours of graduate study with a minimum GPA of 3.3 and approval of the program coordinator. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the Graduate School policy on theses as well as all requirements for the department. Students choosing a non-thesis track are required to take a minimum of 6 credit hours in lieu of the Thesis Research courses to be determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Non-thesis students will be required to produce a major paper, or another capstone project developed in consultation with the program coordinator. A 1-year accelerated non-thesis option is also available. Marine Resource Sustainability Concentration The Marine Resource Sustainability Concentration prepares students for careers in policy and law making, natural resource management, and other areas related to research and decision-making regarding the sustainability of resources and uses of the marine and coastal environments. Program Outcomes By graduation students will be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of the most important theoretical approaches involving the human dimensions of marine ecosystems. Apply policy and management strategies to address complex problems in marine sustainability. Employ methods of scientific inquiry and research design in social science to answer research questions to inform and advance marine policy and management. Analyze quantitative and qualitative human dimensions data to infer and forecast on social phenomena affecting marine policy and management. Synthesize results and outcomes of relevant research to propose solutions for complex problems in marine sustainability from a human dimensions perspective. Required CoursesMPMA 6604 - Human Dimensions of Marine EcosystemsMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal LawENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryMPMA 6606 - Environmental and Natural Resource EconomicsMPMA 6600 - Research Methods in Marine Social ScienceMPMA 6614 - Data Analysis and Presentation in Marine Social ScienceMPMA 6608 - Marine Coastal Resource ManagementENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsMPMA 6609 - Marine Fisheries PolicyThesis TrackStudents on the Thesis Track must take 6 credits of Thesis Research over the course of two academic terms under the guidance of a thesis mentor.MPMA 6698 - Thesis Research IMPMA 6699 - Thesis Research IINon-Thesis TrackStudents on the Non-Thesis Track must take 3 credits of Capstone Research and complete a major paper under the guidance of a mentor. In addition, they must complete another 3 credits chosen from the electives group in consultation with their major paper mentor and program coordinator.MPMA 6688 - Capstone ProjectPlus select one course from the following group of electives:MPMA 6681 - Independent StudyMPMA 6683 - Marine Policy and Management PracticumMPMA 6612 - Global ChangeMPMA 6610 - Human Ecology of Coastal SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IMPMA 6603 - Science CommunicationENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsMPMA 6634 - Marine Environmental EducationENVS 6634 - Environmental Education Instructor ClinicENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsMPMA 6635 - Environmental and Social Justice Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Mechanical Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering program is designed to meet the academic and professional needs of both recent mechanical engineering graduates and practicing engineers. This program aims to enhance skills in contemporary analytical, experimental, and computational methods, all within the scope of engineering design and integrated with an industrial perspective. Students begin the program with a graduate-level Advanced Mathematics course (3 credits), preparing them to tackle complex engineering problems. The program also offers courses in Heat Transfer, Solid Mechanics, Advanced Manufacturing, and Fluid Mechanics, equipping students with essential knowledge and skills. Furthermore, the program enables students to gain practical skills and develop research methodologies necessary for major project or thesis requirements. To earn the Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering, candidates must successfully complete at least 30 credits. The program's structural flexibility allows candidates to use 24 credits for specialization in their chosen areas, customizing their educational journey to suit their career aspirations and goals. Decisions regarding core and elective courses require the final approval of the program coordinator. Through its blend of innovative and rigorous academic frameworks, the program strives to develop well-rounded, competent, and industry-aligned professionals who can make significant contributions to their fields. Program Outcomes Students completing the program will be able to: Apply advanced mathematical analysis and finite element methods to solve complex mechanical engineering problems. Solve intricate engineering problems in domains such as automation, manufacturing, energy management, fluid dynamics, thermodynamics, heat transfer, and dynamic systems. Effectively articulate complex ideas and solutions through oral presentations and written reports, ensuring understanding among diverse audiences. Evaluate the impact of an industrial perspective on selected mechanical engineering applications. Design solutions for emerging mechanical engineering problems. Admission Policy Applicants holding a bachelor's degree in a field closely related to mechanical engineering, such as aerospace engineering or industrial engineering, may receive consideration for provisional admission. Students accepted provisionally may need to complete additional undergraduate mechanical engineering courses and/or graduate courses. MS Thesis Option Students interested in pursuing the MS Thesis option should first find an advisor. Then, with approval from the Coordinator, Department Chair, and College Dean, they should complete two courses: MECH 6698 Thesis I and MECH 6699 Thesis II. Required Courses (6 credits)MECH 6602 - Mechanical Engineering AnalysisMECH 6680 - Mechanical Engineering SeminarNote: MECH 6680 must be taken three times for a total of 3 creditsElectives (21 credits)Select 21 credits from the following:MECH 6604 - Numerical Techniques in Mechanical EngineeringMECH 6605 - Finite Element Methods in EngineeringMECH 6606 - Fundamentals of CombustionMECH 6610 - Advanced DynamicsMECH 6611 - System VibrationsMECH 6613 - Fundamentals of AcousticsMECH 6615 - ElasticityMECH 6620 - Classical ThermodynamicsMECH 6622 - Topics in Thermodynamics and Fluid MechanicsMECH 6625 - Mechanics of ContinuaMECH 6627 - Computer-Aided EngineeringMECH 6630 - Advanced Fluid MechanicsMECH 6631 - Topics in General Heat TransferMECH 6632 - Applied Conduction Heat TransferMECH 6633 - Convection Heat TransferMECH 6635 - Dynamic Systems and ControlMECH 6636 - Fundamentals of MechatronicsMECH 6638 - Measurement and Instrumentation in Mechanical EngineeringMECH 6645 - Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat TransferMECH 6647 - Two-Phase FlowMECH 6651 - Microscale Energy TransferMECH 6655 - Interfacing Mechanical DevicesMECH 6690 - Research ProjectMECH 6695 - Independent Study IMECH 6696 - Independent Study IIMECH 6698 - Thesis IMECH 6699 - Thesis IIMECH 6670 - Special TopicsSpecial Topics include: Energy and Energy Efficiency, Automation/Manufacturing, Mechatronics, Robotics, and any other modern topics relevant to the Mechanical Engineering program identified by the department. Students can take one non-MECH course with the approval of Graduate Coordinator which meets towards the elective requirement.Major Project Requirement (3 credits)All students must satisfy the major project/thesis requirement by completing a substantial project. There are three different options to satisfy this requirement: Thesis Option (6 credits) - completion of both Thesis I and Thesis II will meet the major project requirement (3 credits) and one elective course (3 credits). MECH 6698 Thesis I and MECH 6699 Thesis II Research Project Option (3 credits) MECH 6690 Research Project Course Project Option (3 credits) Students may undertake a project related to Mechanical Engineering through any of the MECH courses listed below within the department. The project must be of high quality, reflecting the program's stringent standards. Any one course from the below list: MECH 6605 - Finite Element Methods in Engineering MECH 6610 - Advanced Dynamics MECH 6627 - Computer-Aided Engineering MECH 6630 - Advanced Fluid Mechanics MECH 6632 - Applied Conduction Heat Transfer MECH 6645 - Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer MECH 6690 - Research Project MECH 6695 - Independent Study I or MECH 6698 - Thesis I and MECH 6699 - Thesis IIFocus Areas (optional)Focus areas are optional clusters of courses that provide depth in an area related to mechanical engineering. Those courses typically consist of electives that are enrolled in depending on the focus area.Focus Area 1: Energy and Thermo-Fluids:MECH 6606 - Fundamentals of CombustionMECH 6630 - Advanced Fluid MechanicsMECH 6632 - Applied Conduction Heat TransferMECH 6645 - Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer Focus Area 2: Manufacturing and Automation:MECH 6635 - Dynamic Systems and ControlMECH 6670 - Special Topics -- Special Topics in Automation/Manufacturing -- Special Topics in Mechatronics -- Special Topics in Robotics Focus Area 3: Design and Analysis:MECH 6602 - Mechanical Engineering AnalysisMECH 6604 - Numerical Techniques in Mechanical EngineeringMECH 6605 - Finite Element Methods in EngineeringMECH 6627 - Computer-Aided EngineeringMECH 6645 - Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Medical Laboratory Science, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The MS in Medical Laboratory Science graduate program is designed for individuals holding a bachelor of science in biology, chemistry, or a related major and who are not certified medical technologists or medical laboratory scientists but who desire a career in the clinical laboratory sciences. Medical laboratory scientists are trained to work in clinical chemistry, hematology, immunohematology, immunology, and microbiology with various sub-specialties in each of those major areas. Our graduate program of study consists of 53 credits of coursework designed to provide the knowledge and technical skills necessary to qualify an individual for work in a diagnostic clinical laboratory. Students will complete two years of professional medical laboratory science coursework, spanning all areas of the laboratory. The professional course work includes didactic courses, student laboratory instruction, and clinical experience rotations. Upon completion of the program, students are eligible to sit for the ASCP BOC exam to become a board-certified medical laboratory scientist. Students must complete a a capstone project, which will be developed in MLSC 6651 in the fall of the second year and completed in MLSC 6652 in the spring of the second year. This course provides an opportunity for students to integrate their knowledge and experience into a culminating research project, clinical project, or practical experience. Students will demonstrate connections between concepts and skills encountered in previous health related coursework to their capstone project and experiences. Students are required to complete all clinical courses in their final year of the program with a B- or better. This includes MLSC 6631 , MLSC 6641 , MLSC 6642 , MLSC 6643 , and MLSC 6644 . Students must also complete a comprehensive exam in MLSC 6631 with a grade of 80% or better. The Medical Laboratory Science program has a goal to prepare competent, entry-level ASCP-certified Medical Laboratory Scientists. NAACLS accreditation requires that the program achieve a 75% ASCP-BOC passage rate and a 70% graduation rate. PROGRAM OUTCOMES By completing this program, students will: Demonstrate mastery of theoretical knowledge & readiness to pass the ASCP certification exam. Perform practical skills based on entry level competencies in each clinical discipline. Demonstrate effective skills in communication, systematic thought, and writing. Apply positive professional ethics, attitudes, and practices. Apply research skills applicable to medical laboratory diagnostics and the improvement of patient care. Justify a commitment to lifelong learning and professional development. Required CoursesMLSC 6600 - Phlebotomy and Sample ProcessingMLSC 6601 - Clinical Immunology and Serology with LabMLSC 6610 - Laboratory Operations, Regulation, and ComplianceMLSC 6611 - Clinical ChemistryMLSC 6612 - Immunohematology and Transfusion MedicineMLSC 6613 - Clinical Bacteriology for Medical Laboratory ScienceMLSC 6614 - Hematology with LaboratoryMLSC 6615 - Clinical Mycology, Parasitology, and VirologyMLSC 6616 - Blood Coagulation, Hemostasis, and Urinalysis with LaboratoryMLSC 6631 - Clinical Seminar I EducationMLSC 6641 - Clinical Practicum I - Clinical ChemistryMLSC 6642 - Clinical Practicum II - HematologyMLSC 6643 - Clinical Practicum III - Transfusion ServicesMLSC 6644 - Clinical Practicum IV - Clinical MicrobiologyMLSC 6651 - Capstone Project IMLSC 6652 - Capstone Project IIPlus six credits of restricted electives Six credits of PUBH or HCAD electives approved by advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 National Security, M.S., Defensive Cyber Intelligence Concentration This concentration provides a unique approach to the issue of cyberterrorism and cyber intelligence within national security agencies. Students will be prepared for the responsibilities of protecting agency or corporate information systems. The basics of cyber intelligence as well as the legal issues and cyber-response strategies are evaluated. Students learn through hands-on experience using industry software and practices. This program requires the completion of a minimum of 36 credits of graduate coursework. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Apply foundational knowledge of cyber security to contemporary cyber threats and cyber warfare. 7. Apply intelligence analysis tools to cyber defense. 8. Design intelligence and defensive policy solutions to contemporary cyber threats. Required Courses (18 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersNSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseNSEC 6650 - National Security Policy and StrategyNSEC 6680 - National Security Research MethodsNSEC 6693 - National Security InternshiporNSEC 6697 - Thesis I andNSEC 6698 - Thesis II(If thesis option is selected, 3 credits will apply toward electives.)Concentration Courses (12 credits)Select four of the following courses:NSEC 6614 - Cyber Warfare and Electronic EspionageNSEC 6615 - Dark Web Intelligence AnalysisNSEC 6625 - Information Systems Threats, Attacks, and DefensesNSEC 6626 - Defending the Cyber EnterpriseNSEC 6627 - Internet InvestigationsNSEC 6629 - Practical Issues in CryptographyRestricted Electives (6 credits)Six credits of restricted electives from any graduate, 6000-level NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI, or DSCI course. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 This concentration is designed to provide students the ability to explore and combine aspects of the theoretical foundations of both national security and public administration, and provide students with the core skills and knowledge necessary to be a successful professional engaged in public service. Students will develop a working knowledge of the most prominent features of the global security construct with an emphasis on the United States' national security enterprise and key global states, concerns, and concepts. The concentration accommodates the needs of students new to the field as well as those already working in public service, and will prepare students to successfully lead a public organization. Students will increase their practical knowledge and gain the skills necessary to take on challenging assignments in public service related to national security. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Critically examine the evolution of United States national security and defense policy. 7. Apply public administration concepts to the national security domain. 8. Formulate potential policy solutions to address contemporary national security threats and objectives. 9. Devise policy solutions to support national security agencies and principal decision-makers. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 National Security, M.S., National Security Data Analytics Concentration This concentration is designed to provide students with the fundamental skills necessary to analyze large scale data within the domain of national security. Students will learn programming syntax, data structures, and basic programming concepts. The concentration will also cover the use of Python in analyzing data, automating tasks, and solving problems relevant to national security such as threat intelligence, cybersecurity, and geospatial analysis. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Employ computer programming languages to prepare data for national security analysis. 7. Apply the data analytical methods and social network analysis software to the domain of national security. 8. Interpret the results of data analysis regarding issues of national security. 9. Create interactive dashboards and visualizations by using data relevant to national security. Required Courses (18 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersNSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseNSEC 6650 - National Security Policy and StrategyNSEC 6680 - National Security Research MethodsNSEC 6693 - National Security InternshiporNSEC 6697 - Thesis I andNSEC 6698 - Thesis II(If thesis option is selected, 3 credits will apply toward electives.)Concentration Courses (12 credits)NSEC 6681 - Applications of Data Analysis for National SecurityNSEC 6682 - Applications of Predictive Modeling for National SecurityNSEC 6683 - Introduction to Social Network AnalysisNSEC 6684 - Applications of Data Visualization for National SecurityRestricted Electives (6 credits)Six credits of restricted electives from any graduate, 6000-level NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI, or DSCI course. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 National Security, M.S., Security Studies Concentration This broad concentration is designed to provide students the ability to explore and combine aspects of the theoretical foundations of national security at both the domestic and international levels, and provide students with the core skills and knowledge necessary to craft national security policy. Students will develop a working knowledge of the most prominent features of the national security enterprise, identify key global/local actors, concerns, and concepts. The Security Studies concentration is designed to be flexible to allow students to explore critical security issues at the local and international levels. Students will increase their practical knowledge and gain the skills necessary to address a wide range of national security concerns. This program requires the completion of a minimum of 36 credits of graduate coursework. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Categorize various types of national security threats based on intelligence and policymaking assumptions. 7. Assess tactics and strategies of national security policies. Required Courses (18 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersNSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseNSEC 6650 - National Security Policy and StrategyNSEC 6680 - National Security Research MethodsNSEC 6693 - National Security InternshiporNSEC 6697 - Thesis INSEC 6698 - Thesis II(If thesis option is selected, 3 credits will apply toward electives.)Concentration Courses (6 credits)The following courses are required for the Security Studies concentration:NSEC 6606 - Wargaming I: The TacticalNSEC 6607 - Wargaming II: Beyond the TacticalRestricted Electives (12 credits)Twelve credits of restricted electives from any graduate, 6000-level NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI, or DSCI course. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Nutrition Sciences, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Nutrition Sciences program integrates the supervised experiential learning as well as the graduate level didactic learning together into one program meeting all competencies established by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Upon successful completion and conferral of the degree, a Verification Statement from the Director will be given authorizing eligibility to sit for the national registration exam administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR), the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Successful passage of this exam confers the title Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). Program Outcomes: Applies knowledge of medical terminology when communicating with individuals, groups and other health professionals. Applies an understanding of anatomy, physiology, and biochemistry. Applies knowledge of pharmacology to recommend, prescribe and administer medical nutrition therapy. Applies knowledge of nutritional health promotion and disease prevention for individuals, groups and populations. Utilizes the nutrition care process with individuals, groups or populations in a variety of practice settings. Demonstrates leadership skills to guide practice. Applies scientific methods utilizing ethical research practices when reviewing, evaluating and conducting research. Applies current research and evidence-informed practice to services. Integrates the principles of cultural competence within own practice and when directing services. Required Courses (52 credits)NUTR 6604 - Vitamin and Mineral Metabolism and BiochemistryNUTR 6609 - Research Methodology and Evidence Based PracticeNUTR 6610 - Nutrition and DiseaseNUTR 6612 - Nutrition and Health: Contemporary IssuesNUTR 6620 - Nutrition Through the LifecycleNUTR 6621 - Lifecycle SELNUTR 6625 - Food ScienceNUTR 6626 - Food Science LaboratoryNUTR 6628 - Therapeutic CookingNUTR 6630 - Food Systems ManagementNUTR 6631 - Food Systems Management SELNUTR 6634 - Nutritional PharmacologyNUTR 6640 - Community NutritionNUTR 6641 - Community Nutrition SELNUTR 6642 - Nutrition Care Process and Physical AssessmentNUTR 6643 - Clinical Nutrition SELNUTR 6644 - Nutrition CounselingNUTR 6645 - Culminating Rotation SELNUTR 6690 - Nutrition Science Capstone ProjectHCAD 6603 - Financial Management of Healthcare Organizations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Physician Associate, M.M.S. Program Outcomes: Apply principles of basic and clinical science, including anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, and genetics to identify, diagnose, and provide patient centered care to healthy and ill patients. Recognize the risk factors and epidemiology of commonly presenting disease. Select, interpret, and apply diagnostic studies to inform clinical decision making. Formulate pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments plans including counseling and patient education for both healthy and ill patients. Demonstrate ability to establish rapport with patients. Effectively communicate information to patients, peers, and members of the health care team. Demonstrate empathy, honesty, and compassion to provide patient-centered care. Maintain respectful working relationships with all members of the health care team. Conduct problem-focused and comprehensive examinatons that includes the patient-centric gathering of information. Convey patient information to all members of the health care team in an accurate and efficient manner in verbal and written formats. Provide counseling to patients from diverse backgrounds to support them in the shared decision-making process. Perform skills and procedures essential to entry into the Physician Associate profession. Approach the provision of health care with a person-centered focus. Provide team-based care that demonstrates respect for patient autonomy, rights to informed consent, confidentiality, and respect. Demonstrate personal accountability, devotion to self-appraisal, and commitment to life-long learning. Provide patient centered care that incorporates patient cultural belief and practices with respect to societal and psychosocial aspects of the patient. Consider fiscal impact, patient safety, and resource allocation in the provision of care. Analyze practice performance and participate in quality assurance and improvement efforts. Explain how regulatory policies and laws govern the profession. Work collaboratively in team-based care to optimize patient-centered care. Synthesize information acquired through patient encounters and medical literature to develop appropriate differential diagnoses and management plans for acute, chronic, and emergent health conditions. Interpret data collected via patient examination, laboratory and diagnostic studies, procedures, and imaging studies to accurately diagnose chronic, acute, and emergent medical conditions. Formulate a treatment plan incorporating appropriate pharmaceutical, non-pharmaceutical, patient education, and appropriate therapeutic interventions in the prevention and treatment of chronic, acute, and emergent conditions. Integrate understanding of cultural, socioeconomic, environmental, and other population level impacts on health into medical decision-making and the development of individualized care plans. Demonstrate accumulation of medical knowledge appropriate for entry into the Physician Associate profession. Required Courses (98 credits)PHAS 6000 - Applied Medical SciencePHAS 6001 - Clinical Anatomy and PhysiologyPHAS 6010 - Diagnostic Methods IPHAS 6011 - Diagnostic Methods IIPHAS 6012 - Diagnostic Methods IIIPHAS 6020 - Professional IssuesPHAS 6021 - Systems Based PracticePHAS 6022 - Person Centered CarePHAS 6030 - Clinical Assessment IPHAS 6031 - Clinical Assessment IIPHAS 6032 - Clinical Assessment IIIPHAS 6040 - Clinical Medicine IPHAS 6041 - Clinical Medicine IIPHAS 6042 - Clinical Medicine IIIPHAS 6050 - Pharmacology IPHAS 6051 - Pharmacology IIPHAS 6052 - Pharmacology IIIPHAS 6060 - Specialty MedicinePHAS 6065 - Evidence Based MedicinePHAS 6071 - Family/Ambulatory MedicinePHAS 6072 - Pediatric MedicinePHAS 6073 - Women's HealthPHAS 6074 - Internal MedicinePHAS 6075 - Behavioral MedicinePHAS 6076 - Surgical MedicinePHAS 6077 - Emergency MedicinePHAS 6078 - Elective PracticumPHAS 6800 - Physician Associate Competencies IPHAS 6801 - Physician Associate Competencies IIPHAS 6802 - Physician Associate Competencies IIIPHAS 6810 - Integrating Seminar IPHAS 6811 - Integrating Seminar IIPHAS 6888 - Capstone Seminar Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Fire & Emergency Medical Services Concentration: Analyze critical fire and emergency medical services issues using a public administration framework. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits.Concentration in Fire and Emergency Medical ServicesThe Fire and Emergency Medical Services concentration prepares students to apply public administration principles to the administration and management of fire and emergency medical services organizations. There are three required electives:FIRE 6631 - Organization and Management of Fire and Emergency Medical ServicesFIRE 6632 - Strategic Planning for Public Safety LeadersFIRE 6633 - Issues in Public Safety Professional Responsibility Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a specific concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits.General Concentration Advisor Approved Elective Courses (three courses) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Municipal Management Concentration: Apply ethical management principles in evaluation of a local government organization. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Nonprofit Management Concentration: Apply management principles in evaluation of a nonprofit organization. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits.Concentration in Nonprofit ManagementThe Nonprofit Management concentration provides students with vital knowledge and skills in Nonprofit Management, from traditional aspects such as fund raising and community service, to current trends such as social entrepreneurship. Students in this concentration must take PADM 6663 Nonprofit Management and two additional electives.PADM 6663 - Nonprofit ManagementStudents must take two additional electives from:PADM 6608 - Fostering High Impact BoardsPADM 6637 - Grant Writing in the Public and Nonprofit SectorsPADM 6665 - Communications and Public Relations for Public and Nonprofit OrganizationsPADM 6666 - Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit OrganizationsPADM 6667 - Human Resource Management in the Nonprofit and Volunteer SettingPADM 6668 - Fund Development for Nonprofit OrganizationsAdvisor Approved Electives Courses Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Public Financial Management Concentration: Apply financial management principles in evaluation of a public organization. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Public Safety Concentration: Analyze critical public safety issues using a public administration framework. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits.Concentration in Public SafetyThe Public Safety concentration is designed to give students a focused background in local and state Public Safety, from the perspectives of Criminal Justice, Emergency Management, Fire Science, National Security, or Investigations. Students in this concentration must take PADM 6649 Public Leadership and two additional electives.PADM 6649 - Public LeadershipThe remaining two courses can be selected from Public Administartion, Criminal Justice, Emergency Management, Fire Science, National Security, or Investigations. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Public Health, M.P.H. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The mission of the Master of Public Health (MPH) program is to prevent disease, promote health, protect the well-being, and achieve health equity for all populations at local, regional, national, and global levels through education, research, and service. The vision of the MPH program is that all individuals and communities, regardless of identity or circumstance, have equitable opportunities to achieve optimal health and well-being. The learning experiences gained in this program enable students to develop broad technical skills as well as the organizational competencies needed to thrive in a wide range of settings in which public health professionals work, including state and local government, non-governmental organizations, hospitals, research institutions, policy-making institutions, and community health programs, among others. A total of 42 graduate credits is required for completion of the Master of Public Health degree, comprising eleven required courses (33 credits) plus three restricted electives (9 credits). Program Outcomes Upon completion of the Master of Public Health program, graduates will able to: 1. Integrate knowledge of the foundational areas of public health 2. Illustrate advanced healthcare leadership skills 3. Apply data analysis techniques for public health research, policy, and practice 4. Evaluate population needs, assets, and capacities that affect community health Required courses (33 credits):PUBH 6600 - Foundations of Public HealthPUBH 6615 - Principles of EpidemiologyPUBH 6620 - Health, Behavior, and SocietyPUBH 6625 - Biostatistical Applications in Public HealthPUBH 6640 - Healthcare LeadershipPUBH 6645 - Public Health EthicsPUBH 6650 - Law and Public HealthPUBH 6655 - The U.S. Healthcare SystemPUBH 6660 - Public Health Practice, Planning, and EvaluationPUBH 6672 - Global Health PUBH 6690 - Public Health CapstoneorPUBH 6695 - Public Health Internship: Applied Practice ExperiencePlus three of the following (9 credits):PUBH 6630 - Environmental and Occupational HealthPUBH 6670 - Public Health NutritionPUBH 6671 - Health Education and PromotionPUBH 6673 - Public Health Emergency PreparednessPUBH 6674 - Comparative Health Systems and Global HealthPUBH 6680 - Health AnalyticsPUBH 6681 - Digital HealthPUBH 6682 - Healthcare InnovationPUBH 6684 - Health Data MiningENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information Systems Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Speech-Language Pathology, M.S. A total of 63 graduate credits is required for completion of the master of science in speech-language pathology. At the graduate level, students will develop knowledge and skills to help patients of all ages with communication disorders. Students will have hands-on learning experiences in a wide range of practice settings. The program consists of five semesters of full-time on-site and hybrid graduate coursework in the sciences, social sciences, and clinical skills. Program Outcomes Evaluate concepts of prevention, assessment and intervention of swallowing, speech, language and hearing disorders. Synthesize evidence-based information for clinical practice in Speech-Language Pathology (SLP). Apply professional communication skills through peer collaboration. Integrate principles of cultural competence and ethical behavior. Required Courses (63 credits):SLPA 6600 - Developmental Language Disorders: Ages Birth to FiveSLPA 6601 - Articulation and Phonological DisordersSLPA 6603 - Fluency DisordersSLPA 6606 - Evidence-Based Practice for Clinical ApplicationSLPA 6620 - School-Age Language DisordersSLPA 6621 - DysphagiaSLPA 6622 - Neurogenic Language DisordersSLPA 6623 - Aural Rehabilitation/HabilitationSLPA 6624 - Autism Spectrum Disorders and Developmental DisabilitiesSLPA 6630 - Clinical Practicum ISLPA 6700 - Neurogenic Speech DisordersSLPA 6704 - Clinical Practicum IISLPA 6705 - Teaching Students with ExceptionalitiesSLPA 6800 - Voice and Velopharyngeal DisordersSLPA 6803 - Cognitive-Communication DisordersSLPA 6804 - Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) and Severe DisabilitiesSLPA 6805 - Clinical Practicum IIISLPA 6850 - CapstoneSLPA 6900 - Clinical Practicum Special SettingSLPA 6901 - Assessment and Intervention for Reading and Writing Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Sport Management, M.S., Business Analytics (STEM) Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php A total of 30-36 credits are required for completion of the master of science in Sport Management (depending on the choice of concentration). The program is made up of a Sport Management core that is common to each of the concentrations (consisting of six Sport Management courses) and a set of concentration courses (consisting of between four and six courses tailored to that particular segment of the Sport Management discipline). The M.S. in Sport Management with a concentration in Business Analytics (36 credits and STEM designated) provides an in-depth framework for the use of sport analytics and how data drives critical decisions in the sport industry. The goal of this degree program is to enhance students' quantitative and statistical skills (including predictive modeling and data management), build and understanding of the relationship between data and decisions, and develop the skills to communicate those relationships. Sport Management Core (18 credits)SMGT 6600 - Sport Business ToolkitSMGT 6610 - Strategic Sport ManagementSMGT 6611 - Sport Industry Marketing, Promotion and Public RelationsSMGT 6612 - Sports LawSMGT 6617 - Managing Sport FinancesSMGT 6694 - Internship I (Capstone Course)Concentration requirements (18 credits)SMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsBANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6320 - Supervised Machine LearningBANL 6420 - Unsupervised Machine LearningBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business Analytics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 A total of 30-36 credits are required for completion of the master of science in Sport Management (depending on the choice of concentration). The program is made up of a Sport Management core that is common to each of the concentrations (consisting of six Sport Management courses) and a set of concentration courses (consisting of between four and six courses tailored to that particular segment of the Sport Management discipline). Sport Management Core (18 credits)SMGT 6600 - Sport Business ToolkitSMGT 6610 - Strategic Sport ManagementSMGT 6611 - Sport Industry Marketing, Promotion and Public RelationsSMGT 6612 - Sports LawSMGT 6617 - Managing Sport FinancesSMGT 6694 - Internship I (Capstone Course)Concentration requirements (6 credits)SMGT 6618 - Major Policy Issues in Intercollegiate AthleticsSMGT 6621 - Applied Collegiate Fitness and AthleticsPlus two of the following electives (6 credits)SMGT 6613 - Sports Facility ManagementSMGT 6620 - Professional Sport ManagementSMGT 6622 - Sport Facility Development and ConstructionSMGT 6623 - Sport Business Development and SustainabilitySMGT 6624 - Sports EconomicsSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsSMGT 6626 - Strategic Event ManagementSMGT 6695 - Independent Study Ior any other College of Business electives as approved by your Sport Management advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Sport Management, M.S., General Concentration Program Outcomes 1.2 Students will be able to analyze data and recommend a strategic course of action that reflects real-world functionality and strategy within the sports organization. 2.1 Students will be able to describe the various legal theories that they can face when they work as sport administrators. 2.2 Students will demonstrate an ability to apply legal theories to real world problems from identifying applicable legal standards through compliance with organizational regulations. 2.3 Students will demonstrate an ability to draft a comprehensive sport contract. 2.4 Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to analyze the ethical and social ramifications of running a sport program. 3.1 Students will be knowledgeable about tools that can be used to effectively market a sport business/organization. 3.2 Students will demonstrate an ability to effectively run sport events/organizations 3.3 Students will demonstrate an ability to work in the sport industry and successfully work with current industry professionals. 4.1 Students will demonstrate an understanding of basic sport finance terms, ratios, and the budgetary processes. 4.2 Students will be able to make decisions based on analyzing financial data and then implement those decisions Business Analytics Concentration 5.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 5.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. College Athletics Concentration 5.1 Students will demonstrate an understanding of NCAA rules and how those rules impact athletes, coaches and institutions. 5.2 Students will be knowledgeable about the day-to-day responsibilities encountered in running all facets of a collegiate athletic department. A total of 30-36 credits are required for completion of the master of science in Sport Management (depending on the choice of concentration). The program is made up of a Sport Management core that is common to each of the concentrations (consisting of six Sport Management courses) and a set of concentration courses (consisting of between four and six courses tailored to that particular segment of the Sport Management discipline). The general M.S. Sport Management degree (30 credits) allows the student to build a set of Sport Management and general business electives around the Sport Management core that reflects their particular interests and professional objectives. Sport Management Core (18 credits)SMGT 6600 - Sport Business ToolkitSMGT 6610 - Strategic Sport ManagementSMGT 6611 - Sport Industry Marketing, Promotion and Public RelationsSMGT 6612 - Sports LawSMGT 6617 - Managing Sport FinancesSMGT 6694 - Internship I (Capstone Course)Electives (12 credits)Any four of the following courses (12 credits)ENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsSMGT 6613 - Sports Facility ManagementSMGT 6618 - Major Policy Issues in Intercollegiate AthleticsSMGT 6620 - Professional Sport ManagementSMGT 6621 - Applied Collegiate Fitness and AthleticsSMGT 6622 - Sport Facility Development and ConstructionSMGT 6623 - Sport Business Development and SustainabilitySMGT 6624 - Sports EconomicsSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsSMGT 6626 - Strategic Event ManagementSMGT 6690 - Research Project Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Taxation, M.S. The decision by government to utilize its taxing authority to pursue a variety of economic and social goals has led to the development of a complex body of tax law. Given the dynamic state of society's economic and social goals, the body of tax law characteristically exists in a continual state of change. The complexity of tax law is significant because of its influence on the economic decision-making process and because of its impact on the successful achievement of society's goals. Tax consequences have been and will continue to be an important financial consideration. Program Outcomes 1. Apply the economic, political, and social objectives of tax legislation within functional areas of taxation. 2. Provide recommendations and alternatives for action in a tax planning business situation. 3. Analyze the ethical and social ramifications of tax compliance and planning decisions. 4. Apply research tools to develop tax strategies. 5. Produce communications that use appropriate tools of analysis in reaching conclusions and recommendations. Admission Policy Admission to the program is available to accountants, CPAs, attorneys, businesspeople and those holding an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution. Candidates for admission must meet the same graduate business program admission requirements outlined for the M.B.A. program. Admission is based primarily on an applicant's undergraduate record and work experience; however, the promise of academic success is the essential factor for admission. A total of 30 credits hours, including a research project, are required for the Master of Science in Taxation degree. The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit and residency requirements detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Accountants and practitioners wishing to improve or update their skills, or practicing CPAs in need of continuing education credits, and others seeking to expand their tax backgrounds but uncertain about pursuing a master's in taxation, should consider pursuing a Taxation certificate as an alternative. Required Courses (27 Credits):ACCT 6601 - Fundamentals of Federal Income TaxationACCT 6602 - Taxation of Property TransactionsACCT 6604 - Taxation of Corporations and ShareholdersACCT 6605 - Partnership and Limited Liability Company Income TaxationACCT 6606 - Advanced Corporate Income TaxationACCT 6607 - Qualified Retirement PlansACCT 6608 - Taxation of Estates, Gifts, and TrustsACCT 6610 - International TaxationACCT 6615 - Research Project in TaxationElectives (3 Credits):Select one course from the following:ACCT 6611 - State and Local TaxationACCT 6614 - Tax Accounting Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 User Experience (UX) Design, M.P.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php. The MPS in User Experience (UX) Design integrates a set of research and technical tools, user-centered design, leadership and team building, critical thinking and practical skills that will empower students to be tomorrow's leaders in the user experience profession. These competencies provide students with the skills needed to become employed in a wide range of careers in UX design. This program requires the completion of 30 credits. Required Courses (30 credits)Courses must be taken in sequenceFirst Semester:DSGN 6601 - User Experience and Product ResearchDSGN 6602 - Utility and Usability: Human-Centered Design & PrototypingMGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team Building Second Semester:DSGN 6603 - User Interface and Interaction DesignDSGN 6604 - Cognitive UX DesignDSGN 6606 - User Experience Design Ethics Third Semester:BANL 6710 - Digital Story Telling with TableauDSGN 6608 - Human-AI CollaborationDSGN 6609 - UX and Interaction Design for Emerging Technologies Capstone must be taken during the last semester:DSGN 6610 - UX Design Capstone Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Accounting Certificate Advisor: Robert E. Wnek, Professor, B.S.B.A., Villanova University; J.D., Widener University School of Law; L.L.M., Boston University School of Law; CPA A certificate in accounting is recommended to students and professionals whose education already includes an accounting degree and who wish to pursue accounting at an advanced level without necessarily enrolling in the full graduate program. An accounting certificate is especially recommended to certified public accountants who wish to obtain continuing professional education credits in an academic environment. Student may take any four of the following courses: Required Courses ACCT 6616 - Taxation for ManagementACCT 6630 - Current Topics in Financial AccountingACCT 6641 - Accounting Information SystemsACCT 6642 - Internal Auditing SeminarACCT 6650 - Advanced Accounting Theory *ACCT 6652 - Auditing and Assurance Services SeminarACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisACCT 6661 - Managerial Accounting SeminarNote(s):Other courses may be substituted with consent of the advisor. *Prerequisite is ACCT 6630 or two undergraduate intermediate accounting courses. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Advanced Materials Certificate With the development of modern computational science and materials synthesis and characterization experimental methods, materials research and development in industry has expanded dramatically. This program is designed for students who hope to pursue a career in materials industry, such as the industrial sectors of metals, glass, semiconductors, ceramics, and polymer materials. Students will study computational chemistry skills for simulating and analyzing materials and gain knowledge of experimental materials methods in chemical analysis, solid-state chemistry, or polymer materials. The certificate program is available for students with a BS degree in physical sciences, engineering, or medical sciences who hope to acquire specialized knowledge and skills relevant to the materials industry. Program Outcomes The expected program outcomes for students include an ability to: 1. Analyze the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental and theoretical chemistry methods in advanced materials, 2. Apply the basic computational methods and skills for molecular or materials simulations, 3. Effectively communicate the knowledge in oral presentations. Required Courses (3 credits)CHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryElectives (9 credits)Every student is required to complete at least 9 credits of the following elective courses. A student without background courses in Organic Chemistry or Physical Chemistry may need to take additional undergraduate courses.BIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCHEM 6645 - Solid-State ChemistryCSCI 6604 - Introduction to Programming/C Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Animal Cruelty Investigation Certificate The link between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence and other criminal behavior is well-known and understood, and can provide a mechanism by which the cycle of violence can be broken. Further, the legal standing of animals and lack of consistent definitions and laws can be a significant impediment in the successful investigation of an animal cruelty case. The graduate certificate in Animal Cruelty Investigation is designed for individuals who wish to learn and apply the principles of investigation and forensic science to animal cruelty. This certificate is designed for an external audience. Current students should consult their academic advisor regarding its suitability to their program. Students in this certificate will undertake courses in the link between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence, animal cruelty investigations and the application of forensic science to these investigations. Finally, the student undertakes a capstone Independent Study in an approved topic related to animal cruelty. All four courses are taken online and in four sequential accelerated terms. Program Outcomes: Upon completion of the certificate, students will be able to: Discuss key theories and principles of the link between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence Develop a comprehensive investigative response to an animal cruelty case Design an effective crime scene response to the major types of animal cruelty case including large scale scenes Generate a thorough forensic science response to each major type of animal cruelty case Synthesize a comprehensive forensic report and accompanying expert testimony to support an animal cruelty investigation. Required Courses (12 credits)CJST 6621 - Animal Cruelty and Interpersonal ViolenceFORS 6607 - Animal Cruelty InvestigationFORS 6608 - Forensic Investigation of Animal CrueltyFORS 6695 - Independent Study Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Bioinformatics Certificate Advisor: Eva Sapi, Professor, Ph.D., Eotvos Lorand University This certificate program provides a practical, "hands-on" approach to computer applications in molecular biology and focuses on the major issues concerning representation and analysis of biological sequence and structural information. With a strong foundation in computer science and molecular biology, students will acquire a background in generating, analyzing, and interpreting biological data, as well as the ability to apply such knowledge in biotechnology and medicine. The curriculum is designed to accommodate two convergent audiences: 1) molecular biology students with limited experience in computer systems who wish to upgrade their skills and knowledge in the field of bioinformatics, and 2) computer science students with computational or mathematical skills who wish to learn how to apply those skills to real biological problems. The curriculum for this certificate includes five courses (15 credits), which combine computer science, molecular genetics, and bioinformatics. Prerequisites for the certificate include undergraduate molecular biology or biochemistry and college algebra. Required courses: CSCI 6622 - Database SystemsorCMBI 6622 - Database Systems for Biological Research CMBI 6606 - Molecular Genetics/GenomicsCMBI 6620 - BioinformaticsCMBI 6621 - Bioinformatics Programming/PythonCMBI 6625 - Advanced Bioinformatics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Business Intelligence Certificate Advisor: Ahmet Ozkul, Ph.D., Clemson University The certificate in business intelligence is designed to provide students with the practical skills and theoretical knowledge essential for modern-day firms' increasing reliance on business intelligence. Business intelligence as a discipline consists of a variety of business processes for data, information and knowledge management, and a wide range of analytical tools for performing analyses of qualitative and quantitative data. The ultimate goal is to deploy data-driven, evidence-based thinking in the service of strategic and tactical business decisions. Numerous companies, especially those engaged in global markets - routinely leverage data to optimize operations and for strategic decision making. Companies understand that the efficient use of the data available within and outside of an enterprise can be the single most important reason for its success. Government agencies have also increasingly adopted business intelligence practices to more efficiently discharge their regulatory and administrative functions. Graduates will be positioned for any number of jobs including: business intelligence developers, knowledge managers, strategic analysts, solution designers, managers, administrators, data warehouse managers, and forecasting and planning analysts. Four courses (12 credits) are required. Required Courses MGMT 6625 - Knowledge ManagementPlus two of the following: MKTG 6627 - Database MarketingMKTG 6629 - Social Media Marketing Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Business Management Certificate Advisor: Robert Albright, Ph.D. This certificate develops students' conceptual knowledge and skills in formulating corporate strategy and in determining structural and resource requirements. The courses focus on concepts and processes useful in relation to general management and on functional responsibilities in coordinating and directing the organizational effort in our ever-changing economic environment. Some of the courses in the certificate have prerequisites; consult course descriptions elsewhere in this catalog.* Required Courses MGMT 6637 - Management ProcessPlus three of the following: MGMT 6645 - Management of Human ResourcesMGMT 6655 - Corporate Governance and Business StrategyMGMT 6662 - Organization TheoryMGMT 6664 - Organizational EffectivenessMGMT 6670 - Selected TopicsNote(s):Other management courses may be permitted as substitutions with approval of the advisor. *M.P.A. students should complete 12 credits of the core curriculum in the M.P.A. program, including PADM 6601 and PADM 6625 , as the prerequisite for this certificate. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Civil Rights and Title IX Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6617 - Topics in Civil Rights InvestigationsINVS 6620 - Title IX and Predator InvestigationsPlus two electives (six credits) - students should discuss elective courses with their advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Commercial Credit Risk Management Certificate This program will provide banking loan officer candidates with requisite skills and knowledge to make informed lending decisions while considering the regulatory environment in which the lending institution operates. The program includes asset, liability, and enterprise risk management considerations in financial services industries. Lending decisions in conjunction with commercial and real estate customers will also be addressed. Students with prior financial accounting coursework are able to waive the Accounting Foundations requirement. Consent of the department chairperson is required. Students who do not qualify for the waiver must complete the following course in addition to the required courses listed further below: ACCT 6619 - Accounting Foundations Required Courses (12 credits)ACCT 6653 - Credit and Financial AnalysisFINC 6640 - Real Estate AnalysisFINC 6641 - Regulation, Compliance, and Examination ProcessMGMT 6657 - Risk Management Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Compliance Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer Required Courses (12 credits)LSTD 6620 - Regulation and Occupational FraudINVS 6603 - Contemporary Topics in Money LaunderingINVS 6613 - Banking Secrecy Act and Compliance InvestigationsPlus one elective (three credits) - students should discuss elective courses with their advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Computer Programming Certificate Coordinator: Barun Chandra, Associate Professor, Ph.D., University of Chicago Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Corporate Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The corporate investigations certificate is comprised of three required courses and an elective from any INVS course offering. Students should discuss elective courses with their advisor. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6604 - Contemporary Topics in Corporate InvestigationsINVS 6622 - Bribery and Corruption InvestigationsINVS 6644 - Intellectual Property Rights and Counterfeit Goods InvestigationsPlus one INVS elective (3 credits), approved by advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Criminal Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The criminal investigations certificate is comprised of three required courses and an elective from an approved list of electives. Students should discuss elective courses with their advisor. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6620 - Title IX and Predator InvestigationsINVS 6623 - Investigative Intricacies in Death InvestigationsINVS 6647 - Crimes Involving ChildrenChoose one of the following:INVS 6628 - Cold Case InvestigationsorINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV WorldorINVS 6635 - Healthcare Fraud InvestigationsorINVS 6660 - Domestic Violence and Abuse Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Criminal Justice Management Certificate The graduate certificate program in criminal justice management teaches specific skills to professionals in this field. Courses emphasize the application of modern management principles and practices to the field of criminal justice. The following four courses (12 credits), or substitutions approved by the advisor, are required for completion of this certificate. Required Courses CJST 6612 - Criminal Justice ManagementCJST 6637 - Criminal Justice PolicyCJST 6658 - Leadership Issues in Criminal Justice CJST 6655 - Crime Prevention Through Environmental DesignorCJST 6656 - Problem-Oriented PolicingorCJST 6657 - Crime Mapping and Analysis Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Cybercrime Investigation Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The graduate certificate program in cybercrime investigation is comprised of two required courses and two electives. Students should discuss courses with their advisor. Online only. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6611 - Contemporary Topics in Cybercrime InvestigationsCJST 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation ProceduresPlus two electives, at least one of which is from INVS approved by advisor (6 credits) - students should discuss elective courses with their advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Defensive Cyber Intelligence Certificate This 12-credit certificate provides a unique approach to the issue of cyberterrorism and cyber intelligence within national security agencies. Students will be prepared for the responsibilities of protecting agency or corporate information systems. The basics of cyber intelligence as well as the legal issues and cyber-response strategies are evaluated. Students learn through hands-on experience using industry software and practices. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of cyber security to contemporary cyber threats and cyber warfare. 2. Apply intelligence analysis tools to cyber defense. 3. Design intelligence and defensive policy solutions to contemporary cyber threats. Required Course (3 credits)NSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseRestricted Electives (9 credits)Choose three electives (9 credits total) from the following:NSEC 6614 - Cyber Warfare and Electronic EspionageNSEC 6615 - Dark Web Intelligence AnalysisNSEC 6625 - Information Systems Threats, Attacks, and DefensesNSEC 6626 - Defending the Cyber EnterpriseNSEC 6627 - Internet InvestigationsNSEC 6629 - Practical Issues in CryptographyStudents may also choose any CSCI or DSCI course. Any prerequisites for CSCI or DSCI courses must be satisfied. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Digital Forensic Investigation Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The graduate certificate program in digital forensic investigation is comprised of two required courses and two electives. Students should discuss courses with their advisor. Online only. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation ProceduresCJST 6627 - Internet Investigations and Audit-Based Computer ForensicsPlus two electives (six credits) - students should discuss elective courses with their advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Drug Discovery Chemistry Certificate With the development of modern computational chemistry and experimental chemistry methods, the drug discovery process in industry has expanded dramatically. This program is designed for students who hope to pursue a career in the pharmaceutical or healthcare industries. Students will study computational chemistry skills for simulating and analyzing drug molecules and biomolecules and gain knowledge about experimental methods of chemical analysis, medicinal chemistry, or biomedical polymers. The certificate program is available for students with a BS degree in physical sciences, engineering, life sciences, and health sciences who hope to acquire specialized knowledge and skills relevant to the pharmaceutical or healthcare industry. Program Outcomes The expected program outcomes for students include an ability to: 1. Analyze the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental and theoretical chemistry methods in drug discovery chemistry. 2. Apply the basic computational methods and skills for molecular simulations. 3. Effectively communicate the knowledge in oral presentations. Required Courses (3 credits)CHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryElectives (9 credits)Every student is required to complete at least 9 credits of the following elective courses. A student without background courses in Organic Chemistry or Physical Chemistry may need to take additional undergraduate courses.BIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCHEM 6650 - Medicinal Chemistry ICHEM 6655 - Pharmacology Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Elder and Child Protective Services Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The elder and child protective services investigations certificate is comprised of four required courses. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6615 - Current Issues in Elder and Other Social FraudsINVS 6645 - Contemporary Topics in Elder Justice InvestigationsINVS 6647 - Crimes Involving ChildrenINVS 6660 - Domestic Violence and Abuse Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Emergency Management Certificate Disaster losses are increasing in the United States. Disasters are, and will continue to be, a growth business. The surrounding social, economic, political, and bureaucratic contexts within which Emergency Management operates has also become more complicated, requiring more sophisticated engagement. The Emergency Management certificate program, which requires only four courses, offers an opportunity to raise the level of professionalism in the emergency management personnel. This will, in turn, make communities and businesses more resilient to disasters, either natural or caused by humans. The courses required in the certificate program will help emergency managers learn to be more active in bringing people together from a variety of backgrounds and disciplines to help solve problems through the vision of complementary minds allied for a common purpose. Required Courses EMGT 6601 - Principles of Emergency ManagementEMGT 6602 - Principles and Practices of Hazard MitigationEMGT 6603 - Catastrophe Readiness and ResponseEMGT 6604 - Holistic Disaster Recovery: Creating a More Sustainable Future Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Analytical Chemistry Certificate With the development of modern computational simulation methods and experimental chemical analysis methods, the environmental chemistry industry has grown dramatically. This program is designed for students who hope to pursue a career in the environmental chemistry industry such as environmental testing and analytical services, waste analysis and treatment, and pollution analysis and treatment. Students will study computational chemistry skills for simulating chemical structures and will gain knowledge of the experimental methods used in chemical analysis, environmental chemistry, air pollution, or the treatment of aqueous wastes. The certificate program is available for students with a BS degree in physical sciences and engineering who hope to acquire specialized knowledge and skills relevant to the environmental chemistry industry. Program Outcomes The expected program outcomes for students include the ability to: 1. Analyze the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental and theoretical chemistry methods in environmental analysis. 2. Apply the basic computational methods and skills for simulating chemical structures. 3. Effectively communicate the knowledge in oral presentations. Required Courses (3 credits)CHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryElectives (9 credits)Every student is required to complete at least 9 credits of the following elective courses. A student without background courses in Organic Chemistry or Physical Chemistry may need to take additional undergraduate courses.CHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCIVL 6601 - Physical-Chemical Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution Fundamentals Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Epidemiology Certificate Epidemiology is a basic science of public health used to study disease and health patterns, and causes and effects within specific populations or communities. In this certificate program, students will learn how epidemiology is used to identify causes of disease, identify populations at high risk for disease, develop preventative methods, and evaluate public health strategies. Required Courses (12 credits)Students must take the following four courses to complete the certificate:PUBH 6615 - Principles of EpidemiologyPUBH 6625 - Biostatistical Applications in Public HealthPUBH 6680 - Health AnalyticsPUBH 6687 - Advanced Epidemiology Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Finance Certificate Advisor: Leah A. Hartman, Instructor, M.B.A. - Finance Concentration, University of Chicago; J.D., Indiana University The goal of the finance certificate is to prepare individuals for careers in the financial services sector as well as in modern corporate financial management. Certificate study stresses an understanding of the conceptual foundations of finance and the use of analytic techniques. Certificate candidates are required to meet the prerequisites for FINC 6601 . Students should contact the finance advisor as soon as possible to plan course selection. Required Courses FINC 6601 - Introduction to FinanceFINC 6602 - Corporate FinancePlus two finance electives Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Financial Crimes Investigation Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The graduate certificate program in financial crimes investigation is comprised of one main required course and three electives. The three electives can be focused areas of study or a broader open selection that explore multiple areas of financial crimes investigations. Students should discuss courses with their advisor. Online only. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6605 - Contemporary Topics in White Collar CrimeINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV World Plus two electives from the following (6 credits): INVS 6601 - White Collar Crime AnalyticsINVS 6603 - Contemporary Topics in Money LaunderingINVS 6610 - Transnational and Organized Crime InvestigationsINVS 6612 - Contemporary Topics in Insurance InvestigationsINVS 6626 - Trafficking and Smuggling InvestigationsINVS 6627 - Identity Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6634 - Criminal Tax InvestigationsINVS 6635 - Healthcare Fraud Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Investigative Genetic Genealogy Certificate The online graduate certificate in Forensic Investigative Genetic Genealogy (FIGG) provides individuals in either the public or private sector with the foundational concepts and application of both genetic genealogy and traditional genealogy to forensic investigations. This can include but is not limited to criminal, civil, and family history investigations. The fundamentals of forensic biology and forensic DNA analysis will be included to provide the student with the principles, applications, and interpretation of biological evidence as it relates to forensic investigations. The principles of genetic genealogy will be explored to provide an understanding of the various DNA testing methods available for use in genetic genealogy investigations. Genealogical Research methods in the form of documentary evidence will provide the student with a strong foundation in the Genealogy Standards used in genealogical research to obtain valid results. Investigation techniques and ethical concepts will be included throughout the certificate program. The certificate program will culminate in the student undertaking a FIGG practicum through the completion of a full mock FIGG case. All courses are online and offered in 4 sequential mini-terms (i.e., 7 weeks). Program Outcomes: By the end of this program, students will be able to: Evaluate current practices within the fields of forensic biology and forensic DNA profiling. Assess current genetic genealogy methods for use with forensic biological evidence. Conclude investigation findings will appropriate documentary evidence that adhere to the Genealogy Standards. Demonstrate, at a professional level, applied genetic genealogy skills in a mock FIGG case investigation. Required Courses (12 credits)FORS 6600 - Fundamentals of Forensic Biological EvidenceorFORS 6604 - Forensic DNA Phenotyping: Appearance and Ancestry FORS 6601 - Forensic Genetic GenealogyFORS 6602 - Genealogy Principles and MethodsFORS 6603 - FIGG Practicum Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Mental Health Certificate Advisor: Melissa L. Whitson, Ph.D., Columbia University The 12-credit advanced training program is designed for students who have achieved a master's degree applicable to counseling or related field and need to supplement their coursework in the management and care of individuals in forensic settings. It is designed to enhance the knowledge and skills of professionals currently working or who will be working in forensic mental health settings. Program Outcomes Upon completion of this certificate, students will be able to: Utilize psychological concepts and principles to explain human behavior within the criminal justice system. Formulate forensic treatment plans. Evaluate forensic treatment programs from various perspectives Apply legal principles in landmark mental health cases to professional practice Describe recommended practices for forensic interviewing, assessment of risk of suicide, risk of future violence, and feigning/malingering Required Courses PSYC 6655 - Forensic Psychology (taken as the first course for the certificate) PSYC 6657 - Forensic AssessmentPSYC 6658 - Forensic Treatment ModelsPSYC 6659 - Mental Health Law Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Foundations of Organization Development and Change Certificate This two-semester graduate certificate develops experienced professionals in traditional and emerging approaches to engaging with change as a source of opportunity in organizations.The certificate is designed for those who are primarily interested in specific, concrete application of change principles in their organization. A requirement for the certificate is the design and implementation of a significant change initiative that furthers the mission of the learner's organization, business, or community. This certificate will cover the theory, practice, tools, and applications for creating change in organizational systems. This will be offered in a cohort and hybrid format, with mixed virtual and in person work, and encompasses a capstone project based on each student's unique organizational situation. The program consist of four courses (12 credits). Upon completion of this certificate, students will be able to: • Describe frameworks to understand the nature of change in complex organizations; • Demonstrate a systems thinking perspective when analyzing organizational change needs; • Design novel approaches to address organization development needs; • Apply ideas and concepts to one's current organizational challenges and dilemmas Required Courses (12 credits)PSYC 6616 - Systems Intervention FieldworkPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6642 - Organizational Change and DevelopmentPSYC 6651 - Systems Thinking-based Approaches to Organizational Change Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Geographical Information Systems Certificate Advisor: Coordinator: Matthew Fulda, Practitioner-in-Residence, M.S., University of California, Santa Barbara The certificate in geographical information systems (GIS) provides professional training in the technology and application of computerized cartography and spatially referenced databases. GIS is an increasingly important technology in environmental sciences, urban and regional planning and management, marketing, criminal justice, communications, and energy and natural resource protection. course work provides knowledge of basic and advanced GIS techniques, developing procedures and databases for specific applications, as well as technologies and analyses supporting GIS. This 12-credit program is flexible in order to accommodate both students new to GIS and those who already have some experience with this technology. Students entering this program are required to have a working knowledge of personal computers. Required Courses ENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IENVS 6642 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications II ENVS 6643 - Advanced Applications of GISorENVS 6690 - Research ProjectSubstitute CoursesStudents having previous GIS experience may substitute, with the advisor’s approval, other courses for ENVS 6640 and/or ENVS 6641 . Substitutions may include, but are not limited to, the following:CJST 6612 - Criminal Justice ManagementENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6608 - Landscape EcologyENVS 6690 - Research ProjectENVS 6695 - Independent Study IMKTG 6609 - Marketing Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Global Health Certificate In this certificate program, students will explore the challenges of globalization and health equity around the world, and how ethics and human rights shape global health-focused research, programs, and policies. Students will design, implement, and evaluate global health programs to provide sustainable solutions for public health, prevent communicable disease, and undergo emergency preparedness efforts at local, national, and international levels. Required Courses (12 credits)Students must take the following four courses to complete the certificate:PUBH 6660 - Public Health Practice, Planning, and EvaluationPUBH 6672 - Global HealthPUBH 6673 - Public Health Emergency PreparednessPUBH 6686 - Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Global Supply Chain Management Certificate This certificate prepares students for positions in the fields of strategic supply chain management, process improvement and quality, and supply chain risk management. Students will gain a solid understanding of global supply chain management, as well as the analytical and managerial framework and tools necessary to be successful in a variety of business environments. Required Courses (12 credits)BANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementBANL 6550 - Managing Quality in the Supply ChainBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingMGMT 6657 - Risk Management Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Health Promotion In the health promotion certificate program, students will learn how to design, plan, implement, and evaluate effective health education practices and interventions to address public health challenges and facilitate behavioral changes to improve population health. Program Outcomes Students will demonstrate competence in: methods of public health program design and its evaluation; the social ecological determinants of health; the principles and practices of public health education and health promotion; and grant writing in public health sectors. Required Courses (12 credits)Students must take the following four courses:PUBH 6620 - Health, Behavior, and SocietyPUBH 6660 - Public Health Practice, Planning, and EvaluationPUBH 6671 - Health Education and PromotionPUBH 6685 - Grant Writing in Public Health Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Advisor: Pavani Rangachari, Ph.D., University at Albany, State University of New York (SUNY) Program Director: Pavani Rangachari, Ph.D., University at Albany, State University of New York (SUNY) This certificate is useful for professionals employed in the public, private, or nonprofit sector of the healthcare field. Course work provides students with a foundation across the five domains of healthcare administration: communication and relationship management, leadership, professionalism, knowledge of healthcare environment, and general business knowledge and skills. The certificate prepares them to be knowledgeable about key aspects of the healthcare industry. Required Courses HCAD 6600 - Introduction to U.S. Healthcare SystemHCAD 6601 - Management of Healthcare OrganizationsHCAD 6602 - Management Information Systems in HealthcareAny HCAD 6000 level courseNote(s):The certificate in long-term health care, leading to eligibility for the State of Connecticut licensing examination in long-term care administration, is described here . Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Healthcare Compliance Certificate A certificate in healthcare compliance seeks to foster student success in risk management processes including identification, assessment, management, and mitigation in a healthcare setting. Students will demonstrate competence in understanding health systems and organizations, health law and policy, risk assessment and management, and healthcare compliance. Required Courses (12 credits)Student must take the following four courses:HCAD 6600 - Introduction to U.S. Healthcare SystemHCAD 6604 - Law and Public HealthHCAD 6660 - Healthcare Risk Assessment and ManagementHCAD 6661 - Healthcare Compliance and Regulations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Healthcare Fraud Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6635 - Healthcare Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6637 - Anatomy of Healthcare FraudINVS 6638 - Electronic Files and Healthcare Fraud INVS 6643 - Healthcare Fraud AnalyticsorINVS 6612 - Contemporary Topics in Insurance Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Healthcare Improvement Certificate A certificate in healthcare improvement seeks to foster student success in initiating, planning, executing, monitoring, and controlling quality improvement projects in a healthcare setting. Students will demonstrate competence in understanding health systems and organizations, organizational climate and culture, project management, and principles of Lean Six Sigma. Required Courses (12 credits)Students must take the following four courses:HCAD 6600 - Introduction to U.S. Healthcare SystemHCAD 6601 - Management of Healthcare OrganizationsHCAD 6633 - Project Management in HealthcareHCAD 6656 - Lean Six Sigma for Healthcare Professionals Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Healthcare Informatics Certificate A certificate in healthcare informatics seeks to foster student success in data analysis, decision making, and problem solving by applying quantitative analytical tools and rational models in a healthcare administration setting. Students will demonstrate competence in understanding health systems and organizations, health information technology, revenue cycle management, and health analytics. Required Courses (12 credits)Students must take the following four courses:HCAD 6600 - Introduction to U.S. Healthcare SystemHCAD 6602 - Management Information Systems in HealthcareHCAD 6662 - Revenue Cycle ManagementPUBH 6680 - Health Analytics Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Human Resources Management Certificate Advisor: Khadija Al Arkoubi Ph.D., New Mexico State University This certificate is for the human resources professional or the individual in an allied field who aspires to increase proficiency in human resources management. The program provides an overview of the field and an opportunity to study various subfunctions (such as training, compensation and benefits, or industrial relations) in greater depth. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Internet of Things Certificate Program Coordinator: Junhui Zhao, Ph.D. It is estimated that by the year 2030, the number of Internet-connected devices will exceed 50 billion. The graduate certificate program in IoT is designed for working professionals who wish to learn the concepts and the skills needed to design and implement IoT solutions. This certificate program consists of four courses (12 credits). Based on competency levels, the two fundamental courses (ELEC 6602 and ELEC 6610) may be replaced with others such as Cloud Computing, Introduction to Computer Security, or Wireless Networks. Consult the program advisor for approval of possible substitutions. Required Courses (12 credits)ELEC 6602 - Embedded SystemsELEC 6610 - Computer NetworksELEC 6683 - Fundamentals of Internet of ThingsELEC 6684 - Applications of Internet of Things Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Leadership, Innovation, and Sustainability for Nonprofits Certificate Advisor: Ronald Kuntze, Ph.D. This certificate program is designed to strengthen the leadership and business skills of non-profit managers and students interested in non-profit management careers; ultimately resulting in more effectively- and efficiently-managed sustainable social enterprises providing greater and longer term community impact. This program consists of four courses focused on real-life non-profit clients in the classroom. Candidates are interested in enhancing their business knowledge and strategic management skills, improving effectiveness and efficiency in non-profit organizations, and are motivated by leadership roles in this type of organization. Non-profit project management, financial controls and cost structure, revenue enhancement, fundraising, and effective leadership and innovation will be explored. Four courses (12 credits) are required. Required Courses (12 credits)NPFT 6100 - Strategic Project Management for the Non-Profit ManagerNPFT 6200 - Financial Analysis and Fundamentals for the Non-Profit EnterpriseNPFT 6300 - Non-Profit Sustainability and Growth: Creating a Social EnterpriseNPFT 6400 - Non-Profit Leadership, Growth and Social Innovation Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Lean/Six Sigma Certificate This certificate provides a solid foundation in Lean Six Sigma concepts and tools that are essential to process improvement in manufacturing or service systems. Students will be equipped with knowledge and skills to apply Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies to identify, define, analyze, and develop solutions for process improvement related problems. The certificate is a 12-credit program and is comprised of four courses. By the end of this program, students will be able to: Identify appropriate Lean Six Sigma tools in each phase of the DMAIC process Apply Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies to manufacturing or service systems and processes Perform statistical decision making in the context of process improvement Required Courses EGRM 6604 - Concepts of Engineering and Quality ManagementEGRM 6609 - Applied Statistics for Quality and Engineering ManagementEGRM 6639 - Achieving Optimal OperationsEGRM 6640 - Lean Six Sigma Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Long-Term Health Care Certificate Advisor: David Lane, M.S. This certificate is approved by the Department of Health Services, State of Connecticut, as a course of study in long-term health care. Students who complete this 12-credit certificate are eligible to take the state licensing examination for long-term care administration, preparing individuals for participation in this area of expanding opportunities for health care practitioners. The long-term care certificate is available in two options. Please contact the program coordinator prior to selecting an option as the State of Connecticut has different requirements for each. Option I HCAD 6603 - Financial Management of Healthcare OrganizationsHCAD 6646 - Organization and Management of Long-Term Care FacilitiesHCAD 6681 - Long-Term Healthcare Internship IHCAD 6682 - Long-Term Healthcare Internship IIOption II HCAD 6603 - Financial Management of Healthcare OrganizationsHCAD 6646 - Organization and Management of Long-Term Care FacilitiesHCAD 6683 - Long-Term Health Care InternshipOne health care elective Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Marketing Certificate Advisor: Ron Kuntze, Ph.D The certificate in marketing enables the student to acquire a deeper understanding of marketing phenomena and to develop analytic skills. Special emphasis is given to the development of content knowledge and skills necessary for operating managers of the marketing function. It is suggested that MKTG 6641 - Marketing Management and MKTG 6639 - Marketing Research and Information Systems , if taken, be preceded by other courses in the program. Note that MKTG 6609 and MGMT 6637 are prerequisites for the certificate. Also note that QANL 6604 is a prerequisite for QANL 6675 . Required Courses MKTG 6641 - Marketing ManagementPlus three of the following: MKTG 6616 - Buyer BehaviorMKTG 6632 - Nonprofit and Services MarketingMKTG 6638 - Competitive Marketing StrategyMKTG 6639 - Marketing Research and Information SystemsMKTG 6643 - Product ManagementMKTG 6645 - Distribution StrategyQANL 6675 - Multivariate Analysis Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 This 12-credit certificate is designed to provide students the ability to explore and combine aspects of the theoretical foundations of both national security and public administration, and provide students with the core skills and knowledge necessary to be a successful professional engaged in public service. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. Apply public administration concepts to the national security domain. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 National Security Certificate This 12-credit certificate is designed to provide students the ability to explore and combine aspects of the theoretical foundations of national security at both the domestic and international levels, and provide students with the core skills and knowledge necessary to craft national security policy. Program Outcomes: Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. Required Courses NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersTwo restricted electives (6 credits total) chosen from NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI or DSCI courses. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Nonprofit Management Certificate This 12-credit certificate is intended for individuals seeking to start a new nonprofit, expand an existing nonprofit, and/or hold leadership roles within nonprofit organizations. The program includes details related to: developing a new nonprofit - the legal and financial requirements, and other nuances associated with nonprofit organizations; strategies for building relationships with funders and community partners and to maintain relationships with volunteer employees as well as board members and other stakeholders. Program Outcomes By the end of this certificate program, students will be able to: Develop a proposal for a nonprofit. Apply for grant opportunities. Required Courses (6 credits)PADM 6663 - Nonprofit ManagementPADM 6668 - Fund Development for Nonprofit OrganizationsElectives (6 credits)Choose two courses from the following electives:PADM 6608 - Fostering High Impact BoardsPADM 6637 - Grant Writing in the Public and Nonprofit SectorsPADM 6666 - Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit OrganizationsPADM 6667 - Human Resource Management in the Nonprofit and Volunteer Setting Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Nutritional Genomics Certificate Advisor: Rosa A. Mo, Lecturer, EdD, RD, Columbia University This certificate is designed to provide students with a deep understanding of the close connections among nutrition, health, and disease as well as to provide them with a detailed study of the body of knowledge necessary to understand these connections and the evidence supporting them. The certificate in Nutritional Genomics provides the detailed understanding of the principles of nutritional genomics, such as how individual genetic variation can influence the assimilation and metabolism of nutrition and how nutrition can affect the expression of certain genes known to be involved in chronic diseases. It will introduce clinical genomic research tools and methods (gene expression profiling, proteomics, metabolomics, pharmacogenomics, and bioinformatics), which prepare students to study an individual's response to their nutritional environment. It will also introduce individualized nutritional strategies to prevent chronic diseases and to optimize human health. Admission to the Nutritional Genomics Certificate: BS in Biology, Biotechnology, or Nutrition. It is expected that the applicant has significant background in one of the following fields: undergraduate biology, genetics, nutrition, organic chemistry, and/or biochemistry. Required CoursesCHEM 6655 - PharmacologyCMBI 6606 - Molecular Genetics/GenomicsCMBI 6620 - BioinformaticsNUTR 6633 - Nutritional GenomicsTotal Credits: 12 Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Psychology of Conflict Management Certificate Advisor: Eric C. Marcus, Ph.D. This certificate is designed for professionals who wish to develop skills in communication, negotiation, and mediation. Students will learn theoretical models of conflict escalation and resolution in addition to receiving training in basic skills of communication, negotiation, and mediation. Skills development enables students to resolve both personal and professional conflicts more effectively, as well as to help build the tools necessary for those interested in becoming mediators or organizational consultants specializing in conflict management. The program consists of four courses (12 credits). Required Courses PSYC 6643 - The Psychology of Conflict ResolutionPSYC 6646 - The Psychology of Negotiation and MediationPlus two of the following: MGMT 6667 - Multicultural Issues in the WorkplacePSYC 6612 - Consultation SeminarPSYC 6623 - Psychology of the Small GroupPSYC 6638 - Psychology of Communication and Influence in OrganizationsPSYC 6647 - Industrial and Organizational Psychology in Global Settings Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Advisor: Christy D. Smith, Ph.D. This certificate provides training at the graduate level for those in public service. Course work focuses on the analytic, quantitative, administrative, and managerial knowledge and skills needed to meet the complex problems and responsibilities of government agencies and organizations. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Quality Engineering Certificate This certificate provides a solid foundation in fundamental concepts and methods essential to quality control and improvement in all types of industries and sectors. Students will be equipped with knowledge and skills to identify, define, analyze and develop solutions for quality related problems using statistical quality control, Lean Six Sigma, and experimental design methodologies. The certificate is a 12-credit program and is comprised of four courses. By the end of this certificate program, students should be able to perform the following functions in applications related to quality control and improvement: Identify systems problems in organizations (manufacturing, production, service, governmental, etc.) by applying quality engineering principles, tools, and methods Apply quality tools and methods in improving processes Perform statistical decision analysis using software and advanced tools such as process capability analysis and design of experiments Required Courses EGRM 6609 - Applied Statistics for Quality and Engineering ManagementINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6640 - Lean Six SigmaINDE 6688 - Design of Experiments Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Security Data Science Certificate Program Coordinator: Muhammed Aminul-Islam, Ph.D. The graduate certificate program in Security Data Science is designed for working professionals who wish to learn the concepts and the skills needed to design, develop, and maintain data-driven cybersecurity solutions. This certificate program is comprised of four courses (12 credits). Students are expected to have general knowledge of Cybersecurity and Python programming. Those without this background have the option of enrolling in Introduction to Computer Security (CSCI 6646) and Introduction to Programming for Data Science (DSCI 6602) as bridge courses. Program Outcomes Upon completion of this program students will be able to: 1. Describe the concepts of data collection, cleaning, modeling, and visualization; 2. Practice the tools and techniques of machine learning for data-driven applications; 3. Develop machine learning applications for malware detection, intrusion detection, fraud prevention, and threat intelligence analysis for cybersecurity; 4. Identify the security vulnerabilities and challenges in AI-driven applications Required Courses (12 credits)DSCI 6001 - Math for Data ScientistsDSCI 6002 - Introduction to Data ScienceDSCI 6003 - Machine LearningDSCI 6015 - AI and Cybersecurity Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Security, Risk and Resiliency Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6639 - Global Perspectives of Multi-National Private Sector Security OperationsINVS 6658 - Asymmetrical Attacks on the Private Sector IINVS 6659 - Asymmetrical Attacks on the Private Sector II INVS 6606 - Contemporary Topics in Security and Loss PreventionorINVS 6644 - Intellectual Property Rights and Counterfeit Goods Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Sport Management Certificate Advisor: Ceyda Mumcu, Associate Professor, Ph.D., University of New Mexico This certificate is for those contemplating a career in some segment of the sports industry or for those already working in the field and interested in advancing their careers. Courses are designed to enhance knowledge and skills in sports marketing and public relations as well as in the management of professional and school-based sports, facilities, and fitness and wellness programs. Required Courses SMGT 6610 - Strategic Sport ManagementPlus three of the following: SMGT 6600 - Sport Business ToolkitSMGT 6611 - Sport Industry Marketing, Promotion and Public RelationsSMGT 6612 - Sports LawSMGT 6613 - Sports Facility ManagementSMGT 6617 - Managing Sport FinancesSMGT 6618 - Major Policy Issues in Intercollegiate AthleticsSMGT 6620 - Professional Sport ManagementSMGT 6621 - Applied Collegiate Fitness and AthleticsSMGT 6622 - Sport Facility Development and ConstructionSMGT 6623 - Sport Business Development and SustainabilitySMGT 6624 - Sports EconomicsSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsSMGT 6626 - Strategic Event ManagementSMGT 6670 - Special TopicsSMGT 6690 - Research ProjectSMGT 6694 - Internship INote(s):Other courses may be substituted with the consent of the certificate advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Sports Integrity Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer U.S. and international sports face an unprecedented wave of corruption, money-laundering, organized crime, doping, gambling-related crime, and sexual/physical abuse. The program gives students the ability to recognize and combat these forms of corruption and helps prepare them for potential employment in the new industry of sports integrity monitoring. The sports integrity investigations certificate is comprised of four required courses. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6622 - Bribery and Corruption InvestigationsINVS 6640 - International Gambling, Fixing, and CorruptionINVS 6655 - United States Sports CorruptionINVS 6656 - International and National Sports Gambling Markets Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Supply Chain Operational Analytics Certificate This certificate provides operations management and operational analytics skills needed in managing supply chains in support of manufacturing and technical services with emphasis on procurement, use of web-based information technology, and logistics at the customer level. The certificate is a 12-credit program and is comprised of four courses. Program Outcomes By the end of this certificate program, students will be able to: Identify problems in supply chain operations Employ appropriate data analytics tools in analysis of supply chain operations data to identify root causes Formulate solutions to problems related to supply chain operations Required Courses (12 credits)EGRM 6609 - Applied Statistics for Quality and Engineering ManagementEGRM 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementINDE 6645 - Data AnalyticsINDE 6647 - Supply Chain Analytics and Resilience Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Systems Engineering Certificate Program Coordinator: Ali Montazer, Ph.D. Systems engineering has existed for many decades but was mostly used and appreciated by practitioners in the defense industry and companies working on military contracts. The discipline, however, has gained popularity and acceptance by engineers and technologists in non-defense sectors because it helps them navigate effectively the intricacies associated with complex systems. This 12-credit hour certificate is designed for professionals who wish to learn about and explore the concept of systems thinking, and acquire knowledge and expertise in the theory, applications, and approaches of systems engineering as applied to projects and products design and development. The required certificate courses also apply toward the requirements of the master of science in industrial engineering. Candidates for the certificate are expected to have the requisite background in computing, probability, and statistics. The program advisor, depending on the background of the candidate, may allow substitutions to best meet the professional need of the candidate. Program Educational Objectives The knowledge and skill set provided by the certificate in systems engineering program will enable its graduates to attain the following program educational objectives (PEOs): Graduates will be fully familiar with systems thinking and its advantages as they relate to both personal life and professional practice. Graduates will have a reservoir of knowledge, skills, and abilities to enable them to efficiently and effectively develop and apply any level of expertise in systems engineering and model-based systems engineering methodologies needed on their future projects. Graduates will be able to become effectively involved in service and/or leadership of the systems engineering profession and society at local, national, and global levels. Program Outcomes At the completion of the program, a student will be able to: Apply the systems engineering processes throughout the project life cycle to develop and achieve balances solutions to engineered systems. Develop key systems engineering artifacts using representative case project. Conduct technical reviews for an overall system (e.g. System Requirements Review, Preliminary Design Review, Critical Design Review). Apply systems thinking and systems engineering to analyze systems. Manage systems engineering initiatives at various levels of an organization. Required Courses (12 credits)INDE 6630 - Project and Risk ManagementINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6636 - Model Based Design Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Taxation Certificate This certificate is for accountants and practitioners who wish to improve or update their tax skills, including practicing CPAs needing continuing education credits and others seeking to expand their tax backgrounds. Any four of the following: ACCT 6601 - Fundamentals of Federal Income TaxationACCT 6602 - Taxation of Property TransactionsACCT 6604 - Taxation of Corporations and ShareholdersACCT 6605 - Partnership and Limited Liability Company Income TaxationACCT 6606 - Advanced Corporate Income TaxationACCT 6607 - Qualified Retirement PlansACCT 6608 - Taxation of Estates, Gifts, and TrustsACCT 6609 - Federal Tax Practice and ProcedureACCT 6610 - International TaxationACCT 6611 - State and Local TaxationNote(s):Other courses may be substituted with consent of the advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Terrorism Analysis Certificate This 12-credit graduate certificate provides students with an opportunity to pursue specialized education to understand the causes and implications of both domestic and international terrorism. Students learn fundamental principles of national security and theories of political violence as perpetrated by non-state actors. The certificate is flexible in structure and intended for those interested in careers as either practitioners or researchers. Program Outcomes: Evaluate potential threats emanating from non-state actors. Formulate national security policy responses to counter acts of political violence. Differentiate between different types of political violence. Required Course (3 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryElective Courses (9 credits)Choose three of the following courses:CJST 6678 - Homeland Security and the Threat of TerrorismEMGT 6601 - Principles of Emergency ManagementNSEC 6609 - Terrorism, Revolutions, and InsurgenciesNSEC 6645 - Political Violence and TheoryNSEC 6648 - Homeland Security and Practice Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Trafficking In Persons Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer The trafficking in persons investigations certificate is comprised of four required courses. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6626 - Trafficking and Smuggling InvestigationsINVS 6648 - Technology in Human TraffickingINVS 6649 - Human Trafficking AnalyticsINVS 6727 - Forensic Investigations into the Trafficking of Persons Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Victim Advocacy and Service Management Certificate Advisor: John DeCarlo, Associate Professor, Ph.D., City University of New York Graduate Center This 12-credit certificate is designed for professionals who work with crime victims. Students develop advanced knowledge and skill in working as victim advocates and victim services managers. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Wildlife and Environmental Crimes Investigations Certificate Advisor: Patrick Malloy, Senior Lecturer From smuggling to poaching, wildlife crimes are increasing dramatically. The same can be said in the field of environmental crimes. International organized crime organizations, as well as terrorist groups are highly engaged in these activities. In conjunction with ManchesterCF, a leading international financial intelligence training provider, students in this certificate program will be provided the educational training to combat these crimes. Required Courses (12 credits)INVS 6500 - Fundamentals of Anti-Money LaunderingINVS 6501 - Wildlife Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6502 - Environmental Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6603 - Contemporary Topics in Money LaunderingINVS 6661 - Contemporary Topics in Wildlife Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6662 - Contemporary Topics in Environmental Crimes Investigations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Coordinator: Nadiye O. Erdil, Associate Professor, Ph.D., Binghamton University The program is intended for students with undergraduate engineering or technical degrees from programs accredited by ABET Inc., or demonstrated equivalent. Students entering this program are expected to be competent in mathematics through calculus. Those with insufficient mathematics background are required to take approved mathematics courses (e.g., MATH 6610 - Fundamentals of Calculus) outside/in addition to the program requirements. Applicants with degrees in fields other than industrial engineering are required to take a number of undergraduate courses, or otherwise demonstrate proficiency in areas normally included in an undergraduate industrial engineering program. Applicants are required to meet the requirements outlined in the admissions policy sections of each relevant degree program. The M.B.A./M.S.I.E. program consists of 71.5 credits. Up to 10.5 of these credits may be waived on the basis of undergraduate course work, leaving a minimum requirement of 61 credits. Any waivers of course work from the M.B.A. side of the curriculum must meet the waiver guidelines of the M.B.A. program. Waivers must be approved in writing by the appropriate department and are contingent upon subsequent academic performance. Graduate credit may be transferred from other accredited institutions subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Project/Thesis Requirement Students in the dual degree program must complete the business administration capstone course MGMT 6669 - Strategic Management. In addition, they must complete an industrial engineering special project or thesis within the elective portion of the program. The special project requirement may be satisfied by taking a project course in a group setting, when offered. A designated area of study may be indicated for each industrial engineering project course; the instructor will offer direction and assist students in the development of substantial individual projects. Particular requirements or prerequisites may be set for the course. With special approval, a student may take an individual research project courses or write a thesis (as listed in the catalog). Business Foundation Courses (waivable)The three business foundation courses (4.5 credits) may be waived by students who meet the waiver guidelines established within the M.B.A. program. ACCT 6619 - Accounting FoundationsECON 6633 - Economics for ManagersFINC 6601 - Introduction to FinanceBusiness Core Courses (not waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial AccountingBANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsECON 6644 - Managing in a Global EconomyFINC 6602 - Corporate FinanceMGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingMGMT 6668 - Leading Organizational Strategy and ChangeMGMT 6669 - Strategic ManagementMKTG 6610 - Marketing Analysis and Customer ValuePlus six credits of approved graduate elective coursesIndustrial Engineering Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)INDE 6607 - Probability TheoryINDE 6609 - Descriptive and Inferential StatisticsIndustrial Engineering Core Courses (30 credits)INDE 6605 - Computing and Modeling in Industrial EngineeringINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisINDE 6681 - System SimulationINDE 6684 - Laboratory-INDE 6681INDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsPlus nine credits of approved INDE or EGRM elective courses Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Industrial Engineering Dual Degree, M.B.A./M.S.I.E. Coordinator: Nadiye O. Erdil, Associate Professor, Ph.D., Binghamton University The program is intended for students with undergraduate engineering or technical degrees from programs accredited by ABET Inc., or demonstrated equivalent. Students entering this program are expected to be competent in mathematics through calculus. Those with insufficient mathematics background are required to take approved mathematics courses (e.g., MATH 6610 - Fundamentals of Calculus ) outside/in addition to the program requirements. Applicants with degrees in fields other than industrial engineering are required to take a number of undergraduate courses, or otherwise demonstrate proficiency in areas normally included in an undergraduate industrial engineering program. Applicants are required to meet the requirements outlined in the admissions policy sections of each relevant degree program. The M.B.A./M.S.I.E. program consists of 71.5 credits. Up to 10.5 of these credits may be waived on the basis of undergraduate course work, leaving a minimum requirement of 61 credits. Any waivers of course work from the M.B.A. side of the curriculum must meet the waiver guidelines of the M.B.A. program. Waivers must be approved in writing by the appropriate department and are contingent upon subsequent academic performance. Graduate credit may be transferred from other accredited institutions subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Project/Thesis Requirement Students in the dual degree program must complete the business administration capstone course MGMT 6669 - Strategic Management . In addition, they must complete an industrial engineering special project or thesis within the elective portion of the program. The special project requirement may be satisfied by taking a project course in a group setting, when offered. A designated area of study may be indicated for each industrial engineering project course; the instructor will offer direction and assist students in the development of substantial individual projects. Particular requirements or prerequisites may be set for the course. With special approval, a student may take an individual research project courses or write a thesis (as listed in the catalog). Business Foundation Courses (waivable)The three business foundation courses (4.5 credits) may be waived by students who meet the waiver guidelines established within the M.B.A. program. ACCT 6619 - Accounting FoundationsECON 6633 - Economics for ManagersFINC 6601 - Introduction to FinanceBusiness Core Courses (not waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial AccountingBANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsECON 6644 - Managing in a Global EconomyFINC 6602 - Corporate FinanceMGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingMGMT 6668 - Leading Organizational Strategy and ChangeMGMT 6669 - Strategic ManagementMKTG 6610 - Marketing Analysis and Customer ValuePlus six credits of approved graduate elective coursesIndustrial Engineering Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)INDE 6607 - Probability TheoryINDE 6609 - Descriptive and Inferential StatisticsIndustrial Engineering Core Courses (30 credits)INDE 6605 - Computing and Modeling in Industrial EngineeringINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisINDE 6681 - System SimulationINDE 6684 - Laboratory-INDE 6681INDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsPlus nine credits of approved INDE or EGRM elective courses Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
﻿ Feb 28, 2025 Coordinator: Christy D. Smith, Ph.D. The M.B.A./M.P.A. dual degree program is designed for those whose interests or career objectives are focused on both the public and private sectors of the economy. The program broadly stresses the use of management skills and analytic techniques applied to business, industrial, governmental, and not-for-profit organizations. The M.B.A./M.P.A. program consists of 68.5 credits. Up to 7.5 credits may be waived on the basis of undergraduate course work or work in public administration settings, leaving a minimum requirement of 61 credits. Waivers must be approved in writing by the appropriate department and are conditional upon subsequent academic performance. Graduate credit may be transferred from other accredited institutions subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Project/Thesis Requirement Students choose one of two alternatives for completion of the final six credits of course work in the M.B.A./M.P.A. dual degree curriculum. Most students take the two capstone/research project courses PADM 6690 - Research Seminar and MGMT 6669 - Strategic Management . Alternatively, students may elect to take the two-course, six-credit thesis option (Thesis I and II). If the thesis option is selected, the thesis must show ability to organize material in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific department requirements. Note: Thesis I and II are not permitted as substitutions for MGMT 6669. If the thesis option is selected, MGMT 6669 must still be completed as the capstone course for the M.B.A. program. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
