 Feb 28, 2025 Taxation, M.S. The decision by government to utilize its taxing authority to pursue a variety of economic and social goals has led to the development of a complex body of tax law. Given the dynamic state of society's economic and social goals, the body of tax law characteristically exists in a continual state of change. The complexity of tax law is significant because of its influence on the economic decision-making process and because of its impact on the successful achievement of society's goals. Tax consequences have been and will continue to be an important financial consideration. Program Outcomes 1. Apply the economic, political, and social objectives of tax legislation within functional areas of taxation. 2. Provide recommendations and alternatives for action in a tax planning business situation. 3. Analyze the ethical and social ramifications of tax compliance and planning decisions. 4. Apply research tools to develop tax strategies. 5. Produce communications that use appropriate tools of analysis in reaching conclusions and recommendations. Admission Policy Admission to the program is available to accountants, CPAs, attorneys, businesspeople and those holding an undergraduate degree from an accredited institution. Candidates for admission must meet the same graduate business program admission requirements outlined for the M.B.A. program. Admission is based primarily on an applicant's undergraduate record and work experience; however, the promise of academic success is the essential factor for admission. A total of 30 credits hours, including a research project, are required for the Master of Science in Taxation degree. The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit and residency requirements detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Accountants and practitioners wishing to improve or update their skills, or practicing CPAs in need of continuing education credits, and others seeking to expand their tax backgrounds but uncertain about pursuing a master's in taxation, should consider pursuing a Taxation certificate as an alternative. Required Courses (27 Credits):ACCT 6601 - Fundamentals of Federal Income TaxationACCT 6602 - Taxation of Property TransactionsACCT 6604 - Taxation of Corporations and ShareholdersACCT 6605 - Partnership and Limited Liability Company Income TaxationACCT 6606 - Advanced Corporate Income TaxationACCT 6607 - Qualified Retirement PlansACCT 6608 - Taxation of Estates, Gifts, and TrustsACCT 6610 - International TaxationACCT 6615 - Research Project in TaxationElectives (3 Credits):Select one course from the following:ACCT 6611 - State and Local TaxationACCT 6614 - Tax Accounting Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
