 Feb 28, 2025 Medical Laboratory Science, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The MS in Medical Laboratory Science graduate program is designed for individuals holding a bachelor of science in biology, chemistry, or a related major and who are not certified medical technologists or medical laboratory scientists but who desire a career in the clinical laboratory sciences. Medical laboratory scientists are trained to work in clinical chemistry, hematology, immunohematology, immunology, and microbiology with various sub-specialties in each of those major areas. Our graduate program of study consists of 53 credits of coursework designed to provide the knowledge and technical skills necessary to qualify an individual for work in a diagnostic clinical laboratory. Students will complete two years of professional medical laboratory science coursework, spanning all areas of the laboratory. The professional course work includes didactic courses, student laboratory instruction, and clinical experience rotations. Upon completion of the program, students are eligible to sit for the ASCP BOC exam to become a board-certified medical laboratory scientist. Students must complete a a capstone project, which will be developed in MLSC 6651 in the fall of the second year and completed in MLSC 6652 in the spring of the second year. This course provides an opportunity for students to integrate their knowledge and experience into a culminating research project, clinical project, or practical experience. Students will demonstrate connections between concepts and skills encountered in previous health related coursework to their capstone project and experiences. Students are required to complete all clinical courses in their final year of the program with a B- or better. This includes MLSC 6631 , MLSC 6641 , MLSC 6642 , MLSC 6643 , and MLSC 6644 . Students must also complete a comprehensive exam in MLSC 6631 with a grade of 80% or better. The Medical Laboratory Science program has a goal to prepare competent, entry-level ASCP-certified Medical Laboratory Scientists. NAACLS accreditation requires that the program achieve a 75% ASCP-BOC passage rate and a 70% graduation rate. PROGRAM OUTCOMES By completing this program, students will: Demonstrate mastery of theoretical knowledge & readiness to pass the ASCP certification exam. Perform practical skills based on entry level competencies in each clinical discipline. Demonstrate effective skills in communication, systematic thought, and writing. Apply positive professional ethics, attitudes, and practices. Apply research skills applicable to medical laboratory diagnostics and the improvement of patient care. Justify a commitment to lifelong learning and professional development. Required CoursesMLSC 6600 - Phlebotomy and Sample ProcessingMLSC 6601 - Clinical Immunology and Serology with LabMLSC 6610 - Laboratory Operations, Regulation, and ComplianceMLSC 6611 - Clinical ChemistryMLSC 6612 - Immunohematology and Transfusion MedicineMLSC 6613 - Clinical Bacteriology for Medical Laboratory ScienceMLSC 6614 - Hematology with LaboratoryMLSC 6615 - Clinical Mycology, Parasitology, and VirologyMLSC 6616 - Blood Coagulation, Hemostasis, and Urinalysis with LaboratoryMLSC 6631 - Clinical Seminar I EducationMLSC 6641 - Clinical Practicum I - Clinical ChemistryMLSC 6642 - Clinical Practicum II - HematologyMLSC 6643 - Clinical Practicum III - Transfusion ServicesMLSC 6644 - Clinical Practicum IV - Clinical MicrobiologyMLSC 6651 - Capstone Project IMLSC 6652 - Capstone Project IIPlus six credits of restricted electives Six credits of PUBH or HCAD electives approved by advisor Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
