 Feb 28, 2025 Public Health, M.P.H. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The mission of the Master of Public Health (MPH) program is to prevent disease, promote health, protect the well-being, and achieve health equity for all populations at local, regional, national, and global levels through education, research, and service. The vision of the MPH program is that all individuals and communities, regardless of identity or circumstance, have equitable opportunities to achieve optimal health and well-being. The learning experiences gained in this program enable students to develop broad technical skills as well as the organizational competencies needed to thrive in a wide range of settings in which public health professionals work, including state and local government, non-governmental organizations, hospitals, research institutions, policy-making institutions, and community health programs, among others. A total of 42 graduate credits is required for completion of the Master of Public Health degree, comprising eleven required courses (33 credits) plus three restricted electives (9 credits). Program Outcomes Upon completion of the Master of Public Health program, graduates will able to: 1. Integrate knowledge of the foundational areas of public health 2. Illustrate advanced healthcare leadership skills 3. Apply data analysis techniques for public health research, policy, and practice 4. Evaluate population needs, assets, and capacities that affect community health Required courses (33 credits):PUBH 6600 - Foundations of Public HealthPUBH 6615 - Principles of EpidemiologyPUBH 6620 - Health, Behavior, and SocietyPUBH 6625 - Biostatistical Applications in Public HealthPUBH 6640 - Healthcare LeadershipPUBH 6645 - Public Health EthicsPUBH 6650 - Law and Public HealthPUBH 6655 - The U.S. Healthcare SystemPUBH 6660 - Public Health Practice, Planning, and EvaluationPUBH 6672 - Global Health PUBH 6690 - Public Health CapstoneorPUBH 6695 - Public Health Internship: Applied Practice ExperiencePlus three of the following (9 credits):PUBH 6630 - Environmental and Occupational HealthPUBH 6670 - Public Health NutritionPUBH 6671 - Health Education and PromotionPUBH 6673 - Public Health Emergency PreparednessPUBH 6674 - Comparative Health Systems and Global HealthPUBH 6680 - Health AnalyticsPUBH 6681 - Digital HealthPUBH 6682 - Healthcare InnovationPUBH 6684 - Health Data MiningENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information Systems Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
