 Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Analytical Chemistry Certificate With the development of modern computational simulation methods and experimental chemical analysis methods, the environmental chemistry industry has grown dramatically. This program is designed for students who hope to pursue a career in the environmental chemistry industry such as environmental testing and analytical services, waste analysis and treatment, and pollution analysis and treatment. Students will study computational chemistry skills for simulating chemical structures and will gain knowledge of the experimental methods used in chemical analysis, environmental chemistry, air pollution, or the treatment of aqueous wastes. The certificate program is available for students with a BS degree in physical sciences and engineering who hope to acquire specialized knowledge and skills relevant to the environmental chemistry industry. Program Outcomes The expected program outcomes for students include the ability to: 1. Analyze the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental and theoretical chemistry methods in environmental analysis. 2. Apply the basic computational methods and skills for simulating chemical structures. 3. Effectively communicate the knowledge in oral presentations. Required Courses (3 credits)CHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryElectives (9 credits)Every student is required to complete at least 9 credits of the following elective courses. A student without background courses in Organic Chemistry or Physical Chemistry may need to take additional undergraduate courses.CHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCIVL 6601 - Physical-Chemical Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution Fundamentals Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
