 Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Technology, M.S. Coordinator: Maria Torre, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Forensic technology is a developing discipline that combines traditional crime scene techniques with advanced instrumentation and measurements. Students in this program will master various forms of forensic field technology such as portable instrumentation and forensic database usage. Restricted electives associated with this program allow students to develop specialized knowledge in areas such as bloodstain pattern analysis, firearms evidence, and crash reconstruction. This program is designed for students continuing from their undergraduate work or working professionals. Students can attend all required courses during evening hours, Monday through Friday. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 42 credits of graduate work. This includes a Capstone experience in the form of an internship or research project designed to fulfill the Master of Science Capstone requirement. The transfer of credit from other institutions may be permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Students can determine and integrate the application of the basic principles of the natural sciences to the examination and analysis of forensic evidence. 2. Students will distinguish and compare common forms of physical and pattern evidence, and can properly interpret related examinations of this evidence. 3. Students can discriminate major ethical and professional guidelines, principles, and standards. They can also generate appropriate responses to ethically challenging situations. 4. Students will apply forensic evidence analysis and interpretations in the legal setting and produce and critique written and verbal expert testimony. Required Courses: (36 credits)FORS 6612 - Principles of Forensic Science IFORS 6613 - Principles of Forensic Science IIFORS 6616 - Advanced Crime Scene InvestigationFORS 6617 - Forensic Expert TestimonyFORS 6618 - Forensic PhotographyFORS 6626 - Crime Scene ReconstructionFORS 6653 - Physical Analysis in Forensic ScienceFORS 6661 - Medicolegal Investigation and IdentificationFORS 6663 - Forensic Field TechnologyFORS 6664 - Forensic Field Technology LaboratoryFORS 6686 - Forensic Science Research Project IOrFORS 6688 - Forensic Science Internship ICJST 6608 - Law and EvidenceOrCJST 6651 - Criminal ProcedureCategory I Restricted Electives (select one): (3 credits)FORS 6642 - Wildlife ForensicsFORS 6651 - Forensic ArchaeologyFORS 6652 - Forensic AnthropologyFORS 6655 - Firearm Evidence AnalysisCategory II Restricted Elective (select one): (3 credits)FORS 6634 - Bloodstain Pattern AnalysisFORS 6670 - Selected TopicsFORS 6695 - Independent Study Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
