 Feb 28, 2025 Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Cybersecurity and Networks program is designed to prepare students for opportunities and challenges in the field of cybersecurity and networking. The program offers a strong foundation in networking and Enterprise networks, with special interest in securing and protecting those networks. Possible specialized focus areas include, but are not limited to: ethical hacking, cyber forensics, cryptography, Enterprise networks, ISP networks, wireless networks, and Cloud computing. This program offers opportunities to gain subject matter expertise in a wide range of cross-disciplinary fields such as engineering and data analytics. Students must complete a minimum of 30 credits to earn this degree. Program Outcomes Upon successful completion of the program students will be able to perform the following: Apply computer forensic techniques to investigate a computer related event. Develop security defenses for a computer system based on an understanding of the standard techniques used to attack systems and networks. Write script programs to automate various system tasks. Employ advanced techniques in a focus area related to computer security, cyber forensics, wireless networking, or system administration. Admission Policy This program is designed to accommodate students with no prior programming experience as well as those who already hold an undergraduate degree in computer science or information technology. All applicants will be expected to demonstrate that they have completed a baccalaureate degree prior to enrolling in the program. International applicants are urged to submit scores from the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) to be considered for admission. GRE scores are required for international applicants who wish to be considered for scholarships. The GRE is optional for graduates of regionally accredited United States colleges and universities. Students who are admitted with an adequate background in computing must complete 30 credit hours of coursework consisting of 9 credit hours of required courses, 15 credit hours of cybersecurity and network electives, and 6 credit hours of computer science electives for a total of 30 credits. In addition, within these 30 credit hours of coursework, students must satisfy a project requirement. Based on students' prior academic backgrounds, students may be required to complete up to an additional 12 credits of prerequisite core courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Students may need to complete up to 12 additional credits of core courses (see section below) in addition to the 30 other credits; at the time of admission, students will be notified which courses have been waived for them and which need to be completed by them after joining the program. Students are expected to complete the core courses as soon as possible after joining the program. Students who choose to enroll at the institution accept these prerequisite coursework requirements as a condition of their admission. Core Courses (12 credits - waivable)Students with deficiencies in these areas will be required to take one or more of these courses in addition to the regular courses for the MS Cybersecurity and Network degree.CSCI 6604 - Introduction to Programming/CCSCI 6610 - Intermediate Programming: C/C++CSCI 6642 - Computer Networks and Data CommunicationCSCI 6643 - Operating SystemsRequired Courses (9 credits)The following three courses must be completed by every student in the program and are not waivable:CSCI 6637 - Introduction to Cyber Forensic ScienceCSCI 6646 - Introduction to Computer SecurityCSCI 6651 - Introduction to Script Programming/PythonThese three required courses cannot be waived. However, a student with prior knowledge may substitute Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
