 Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Program Development Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Program DevelopmentThe program development concentration prepares students for careers that emphasize the development and implementation of both traditional and non-traditional programs and services. The concentration addresses planning, development, and evaluation of innovative approaches to treatment and prevention in the public and private human service sectors as well as in business and industry.PSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorSelect two courses from the list below:PADM 6602 - Public Policy Formulation and ImplementationPADM 6637 - Grant Writing in the Public and Nonprofit SectorsPADM 6663 - Nonprofit ManagementPADM 6666 - Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit Organizations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
