 Feb 28, 2025 Anti-Money Laundering and Compliance Investigations, M.S. The Master of Science in Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Compliance investigations combines the expertise of the investigations program with leading experts in the deterrence and investigation of money laundering. The program integrates the legal, regulatory and prosecution issues with the investigative knowledge and skills for investigating money laundering and compliance failures; follow the money (or in today's world, the crypto assets). This program requires the completion of 36 credits. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Identify money laundering typologies. Identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. Prepare SARS and other reports. Analyze the legal and regulatory requirements. Required Courses (27 credits)INVS 6603 - Contemporary Topics in Money LaunderingINVS 6613 - Banking Secrecy Act and Compliance InvestigationsINVS 6627 - Identity Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6629 - Evolving Trends of Financial and Cyber Crimes in an EMV WorldINVS 6650 - Regulation and Occupational FraudINVS 6654 - Blockchain Technology and InvestigationsINVS 6703 - Crypto Asset InvestigationsINVS 6704 - Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsElective Courses (9 credits) Select 6 credits of graduate-level courses with prefix INVS. Select a 3 credit graduate-level course with prefix INVS, CJST, or NSEC. Waivers for Related External CertificationsUp to 6 credits of coursework may be waived for those with ACAMS/Manchester CF/Digital Currency external certifications upon review of the program coordinator. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
