 Feb 28, 2025 National Security, M.S., Security Studies Concentration This broad concentration is designed to provide students the ability to explore and combine aspects of the theoretical foundations of national security at both the domestic and international levels, and provide students with the core skills and knowledge necessary to craft national security policy. Students will develop a working knowledge of the most prominent features of the national security enterprise, identify key global/local actors, concerns, and concepts. The Security Studies concentration is designed to be flexible to allow students to explore critical security issues at the local and international levels. Students will increase their practical knowledge and gain the skills necessary to address a wide range of national security concerns. This program requires the completion of a minimum of 36 credits of graduate coursework. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Categorize various types of national security threats based on intelligence and policymaking assumptions. 7. Assess tactics and strategies of national security policies. Required Courses (18 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersNSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseNSEC 6650 - National Security Policy and StrategyNSEC 6680 - National Security Research MethodsNSEC 6693 - National Security InternshiporNSEC 6697 - Thesis INSEC 6698 - Thesis II(If thesis option is selected, 3 credits will apply toward electives.)Concentration Courses (6 credits)The following courses are required for the Security Studies concentration:NSEC 6606 - Wargaming I: The TacticalNSEC 6607 - Wargaming II: Beyond the TacticalRestricted Electives (12 credits)Twelve credits of restricted electives from any graduate, 6000-level NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI, or DSCI course. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
