 Feb 28, 2025 Marine Policy and Management, M.A., Marine Education and Outreach Concentration STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The degree requires the completion of a minimum of 34 credits. Students can choose between a thesis or non-thesis track. Students who elect the thesis track must carry out an original thesis research project, under the guidance of a thesis mentor, by taking a minimum of 6 credit hours of thesis related research courses: MPMA 6698 Thesis Research I and MPMA 6699 Thesis Research II, over a minimum of two academic terms. The thesis track can be elected after a minimum of 9 credits hours of graduate study with a minimum GPA of 3.3 and approval of the program coordinator. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the Graduate School policy on theses as well as all requirements for the department. Students choosing a non-thesis track are required to take a minimum of 6 credit hours in lieu of the Thesis Research courses to be determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Non-thesis students will be required to produce a major paper, or another capstone project developed in consultation with the program coordinator. A 1-year accelerated non-thesis option is also available. Marine Education and Outreach Concentration The Marine Education and Outreach Concentration prepares students for careers in informal environmental education, and science communication and outreach with a focus on marine and coastal environments. This concentration also prepares students to conduct research or continue their studies in the fields of environmental education and outreach. Program Outcomes By graduation students will be able to: Demonstrate knowledge of the most important theoretical approaches involving the human dimensions of marine ecosystems. Apply policy and management strategies to address complex problems in marine sustainability. Employ methods of scientific inquiry and research design in social science to answer research questions to inform and advance marine policy and management. Analyze quantitative and qualitative human dimensions data to infer and forecast on social phenomena affecting marine policy and management. Synthesize results and outcomes of relevant research to propose solutions for complex problems in marine sustainability from a human dimensions perspective. Required CoursesMPMA 6604 - Human Dimensions of Marine EcosystemsMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal LawENVS 6605 - Marine and Estuarine Ecology with LaboratoryMPMA 6606 - Environmental and Natural Resource EconomicsMPMA 6600 - Research Methods in Marine Social ScienceMPMA 6614 - Data Analysis and Presentation in Marine Social ScienceMPMA 6603 - Science CommunicationENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsMPMA 6634 - Marine Environmental EducationThesis TrackStudents on the Thesis Track must take 6 credits of Thesis Research over the course of two academic terms under the guidance of a thesis mentor.MPMA 6698 - Thesis Research IMPMA 6699 - Thesis Research IINon-Thesis TrackStudents on the Non-Thesis Track must take 3 credits of Capstone Research and complete a major paper under the guidance of a mentor. In addition, they must complete another 3 credits chosen from the electives group in consultation with their major paper mentor and program coordinator.MPMA 6688 - Capstone ProjectPlus select one course from the following group of electives:MPMA 6681 - Independent StudyMPMA 6683 - Marine Policy and Management PracticumENVS 6634 - Environmental Education Instructor ClinicMPMA 6608 - Marine Coastal Resource ManagementMPMA 6609 - Marine Fisheries PolicyMPMA 6612 - Global ChangeMPMA 6610 - Human Ecology of Coastal SystemsENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsENVS 6641 - Geographical Information System Techniques and Applications IMPMA 6635 - Environmental and Social Justice Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
