 Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php A minimum of 30 credits, including four required courses, must be completed from courses designated as environmental engineering to earn the master of science degree in environmental engineering. Specialized focus areas include Water and Soil Treatment and Water Resources. Students may elect to pursue a sequence of courses in one focus area, or they may tailor a program of study to meet specific individual needs. A thesis is optional but highly recommended for students who wish to continue their post-graduate studies or focus on a particular topic under the guidance of a faculty member. Program Outcomes Apply the fundamental principles of environmental engineering science to complex environmental systems. Design treatment/remediation systems or system components. Apply the legal and regulatory aspects of environmental engineering practice. Synthesize information on technical as well as non-technical issues for a chosen topic into an engineering report or thesis. Before enrolling, students are generally required to have completed undergraduate courses in General Chemistry I and lab, Calculus I, II, III, and Differential Equations. Applicants with strong academic or professional experience but without the necessary background for enrolling in some of the required courses may be asked to complete additional courses and will be notified at the time of admission. Required Courses (12 credits)CIVL 6601 - Physical-Chemical Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6602 - Biological Treatment of Aqueous WastesCIVL 6603 - Contaminant Fate and Transport in the EnvironmentCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationElectives (18 credits)Please choose 18 credits from the following focus areas and general electives. Note: Students are not required to select a focus area. If they choose a focus area, they are not required to take all courses within it. They may choose to take courses (in any combination) from the focus areas and general electives below.Focus Area: Water ResourcesCIVL 6614 - Surface Water Quality ManagementCIVL 6615 - Groundwater HydrologyENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsCIVL 6620 - Engineering HydrologyCIVL 6623 - Open Channel HydraulicsCIVL 6624 - Computer Applications in Hydrology/HydraulicsFocus Area: Water and Soil TreatmentCIVL 6604 - Aqueous ChemistryCIVL 6605 - Solid Waste ManagementCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution FundamentalsCIVL 6612 - Advanced Wastewater TreatmentCIVL 6618 - Hazardous Waste TreatmentCHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryGeneral ElectivesCIVL 6680 - Sustainable EngineeringCIVL 6683 - Infrastructure Protection and ResilienceCIVL 6690 - Research ProjectCIVL 6692 - Civil and Environmental Engineering SeminarCIVL 6698 - Thesis ICIVL 6699 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
