 Feb 28, 2025 Sport Management, M.S., General Concentration Program Outcomes 1.2 Students will be able to analyze data and recommend a strategic course of action that reflects real-world functionality and strategy within the sports organization. 2.1 Students will be able to describe the various legal theories that they can face when they work as sport administrators. 2.2 Students will demonstrate an ability to apply legal theories to real world problems from identifying applicable legal standards through compliance with organizational regulations. 2.3 Students will demonstrate an ability to draft a comprehensive sport contract. 2.4 Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to analyze the ethical and social ramifications of running a sport program. 3.1 Students will be knowledgeable about tools that can be used to effectively market a sport business/organization. 3.2 Students will demonstrate an ability to effectively run sport events/organizations 3.3 Students will demonstrate an ability to work in the sport industry and successfully work with current industry professionals. 4.1 Students will demonstrate an understanding of basic sport finance terms, ratios, and the budgetary processes. 4.2 Students will be able to make decisions based on analyzing financial data and then implement those decisions Business Analytics Concentration 5.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 5.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. College Athletics Concentration 5.1 Students will demonstrate an understanding of NCAA rules and how those rules impact athletes, coaches and institutions. 5.2 Students will be knowledgeable about the day-to-day responsibilities encountered in running all facets of a collegiate athletic department. A total of 30-36 credits are required for completion of the master of science in Sport Management (depending on the choice of concentration). The program is made up of a Sport Management core that is common to each of the concentrations (consisting of six Sport Management courses) and a set of concentration courses (consisting of between four and six courses tailored to that particular segment of the Sport Management discipline). The general M.S. Sport Management degree (30 credits) allows the student to build a set of Sport Management and general business electives around the Sport Management core that reflects their particular interests and professional objectives. Sport Management Core (18 credits)SMGT 6600 - Sport Business ToolkitSMGT 6610 - Strategic Sport ManagementSMGT 6611 - Sport Industry Marketing, Promotion and Public RelationsSMGT 6612 - Sports LawSMGT 6617 - Managing Sport FinancesSMGT 6694 - Internship I (Capstone Course)Electives (12 credits)Any four of the following courses (12 credits)ENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsSMGT 6613 - Sports Facility ManagementSMGT 6618 - Major Policy Issues in Intercollegiate AthleticsSMGT 6620 - Professional Sport ManagementSMGT 6621 - Applied Collegiate Fitness and AthleticsSMGT 6622 - Sport Facility Development and ConstructionSMGT 6623 - Sport Business Development and SustainabilitySMGT 6624 - Sports EconomicsSMGT 6625 - Sport Business AnalyticsSMGT 6626 - Strategic Event ManagementSMGT 6690 - Research Project Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
