 Feb 28, 2025 Industrial Engineering, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Industrial Engineering discipline in its modern form contributes to the design, building, operation, management, and optimization of complex systems in all sectors of modern life, including manufacturing, government, education, aerospace, transportation, logistics, and service industries. The MSIE program provides graduate education and training for industrial engineers with a Bachelor's degree, and for engineers and scientists in other disciplines who seek advanced course work in systems engineering and optimization, quality assurance, lean six sigma, manufacturing, operational analytics, engineering management, procurement, and the efficient use of both human and technological resources. The program offers excellent preparation for advancement in manufacturing and service organizations and for those seeking management positions in operations, supply chain, and technology. Program Outcomes Create value by identifing systems problems in organizations (manufacturing, production, service, governmental, etc.) and contributing to their solutions using industrial engineering principles, tools and methods. Apply quality tools and methods in improving processes. Perform probability and statistical decision analysis using software and advanced tools such as statistics, simulation and design of experiments. Manage business processes such as production, supply chain, and logistics operations. Students must complete a minimum total of 30 graduate credits. Students can choose between two concentrations: general or systems engineering. MSIE Program Placement For candidates holding the BSIE (or BSISE), or similar degree, with a GPA of 3.0 or higher from an ABET-accredited program, the MSIE can be earned by successfully completing 30 credit hours of course and project work consisting of 21 credits of core courses and 9 credits of elective courses. Candidates not holding a BSIE from an ABET-accredited program and candidates holding a BSIE from an ABET accredited program but with inadequate preparation in foundational areas would be required to complete up to an additional 6 credits of foundational courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Required non-foundation courses cannot be waived, but transfer credit and substitutions may apply. See the University transfer credit policy for more information. M.S.I.E. Program Components Program Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)INDE 6607 - Probability TheoryINDE 6609 - Descriptive and Inferential StatisticsProgram Core Courses (21 credits)INDE 6605 - Computing and Modeling in Industrial EngineeringINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisINDE 6681 - System SimulationINDE 6684 - Laboratory-INDE 6681INDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsSelect one of two concentrations (9 credits):General ConcentrationSelect 3 elective courses. The remaining credits beyond the core courses may be taken from the industrial engineering courses listed below or other closely related disciplines with the approval of the MSIE program coordinator. The following is a partial listing of elective courses which may change as the program evolves:INDE 6617 - Engineering Economic Analysis and Cost EstimatingINDE 6623 - Decision AnalysisINDE 6627 - Value Engineering and DesignINDE 6628 - Sigma Six Quality PlanningINDE 6630 - Project and Risk ManagementINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6636 - Model Based DesignINDE 6639 - Achieving Optimal OperationsINDE 6640 - Lean Six SigmaINDE 6643 - Reliability and MaintainabilityINDE 6645 - Data AnalyticsINDE 6647 - Supply Chain Analytics and ResilienceINDE 6651 - Human Engineering ISystems Engineering ConcentrationINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6636 - Model Based DesignResearch Project RequirementThe project requirement of the program is met through INDE 6681, a required project course. Students who wish to go beyond the minimum graduation requirement of the Research Project within a course may elect to undertake an additional 3 credits of INDE 6690 (Research Project) working on a topic of interest with a faculty advisor. Projects involving scenarios from an industrial or corporate setting are encouraged. Students looking to pursue the Ph.D. program may, with concurrence of the program advisor, elect to enroll in 3-6 credits, INDE 6698 (Thesis I) and INDE 6699 (Thesis II). Students are strongly advised to discuss this option with the program advisor early on, potentially as early as the first semester of the MS study, to have sufficient time to invest in the process of research, write-up, and defense of the thesis. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
