 Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Nonprofit Management Concentration: Apply management principles in evaluation of a nonprofit organization. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits.Concentration in Nonprofit ManagementThe Nonprofit Management concentration provides students with vital knowledge and skills in Nonprofit Management, from traditional aspects such as fund raising and community service, to current trends such as social entrepreneurship. Students in this concentration must take PADM 6663 Nonprofit Management and two additional electives.PADM 6663 - Nonprofit ManagementStudents must take two additional electives from:PADM 6608 - Fostering High Impact BoardsPADM 6637 - Grant Writing in the Public and Nonprofit SectorsPADM 6665 - Communications and Public Relations for Public and Nonprofit OrganizationsPADM 6666 - Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit OrganizationsPADM 6667 - Human Resource Management in the Nonprofit and Volunteer SettingPADM 6668 - Fund Development for Nonprofit OrganizationsAdvisor Approved Electives Courses Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
