 Feb 28, 2025 Occupational Therapy, OTD Program Goals UNH OTD graduates will demonstrate competency in: 1: Synthesis and integration of concepts related to occupation, health, and participation, enabling them to provide holistic and person-centered interventions in diverse settings. 2: Interprofessional practice and collaboration, equipping them to engage effectively in teams and contribute to comprehensive, person-centered care. 3: Community-based practice, through the ability to design, implement, and evaluate occupation-centered interventions that promote health, well-being, and participation in diverse community settings. 4: Leadership and advocacy, enabling them to advocate for the profession, influence policy, and assume leadership roles within healthcare and community settings. Program Learning Outcomes 1. Occupation, health, and participation: Synthesis and integration of concepts related to occupation, health, and participation in providing holistic and person-centered interventions in diverse settings. 1a. Develop person-centered interventions that consider the unique needs of individuals in diverse settings. 1b. Apply theoretical knowledge to practical situations, demonstrating the ability to adapt interventions to different contexts and populations. 2. Interprofessional practice and collaboration: Interprofessional practice and collaboration, working effectively in teams to provide comprehensive, person-centered care. 2a. Demonstrate effective communication and cooperation during fieldwork experiences. 2b. Develop person-centered interventions that address inter- and intra-professional practice and collaboration. 3. Community-based practice: Community-based practice, through the ability to design, implement, and evaluate occupation-centered interventions that promote health, well-being, and participation in diverse community settings. 3a. Create community-based interventions that promote health and well-being. 3b. Conduct needs assessments to identify gaps in community services. 3c. Create programs that address community needs, considering the unique characteristics of the community. 4. Leadership and advocacy: Leadership and advocacy within healthcare and community settings. 4a. Generate advocacy projects that promote inclusive excellence. 4b. Design an occupational therapy program that advocates for the intended persons, groups, or populations. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
