 Feb 28, 2025 Animal Cruelty Investigation Certificate The link between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence and other criminal behavior is well-known and understood, and can provide a mechanism by which the cycle of violence can be broken. Further, the legal standing of animals and lack of consistent definitions and laws can be a significant impediment in the successful investigation of an animal cruelty case. The graduate certificate in Animal Cruelty Investigation is designed for individuals who wish to learn and apply the principles of investigation and forensic science to animal cruelty. This certificate is designed for an external audience. Current students should consult their academic advisor regarding its suitability to their program. Students in this certificate will undertake courses in the link between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence, animal cruelty investigations and the application of forensic science to these investigations. Finally, the student undertakes a capstone Independent Study in an approved topic related to animal cruelty. All four courses are taken online and in four sequential accelerated terms. Program Outcomes: Upon completion of the certificate, students will be able to: Discuss key theories and principles of the link between animal cruelty and interpersonal violence Develop a comprehensive investigative response to an animal cruelty case Design an effective crime scene response to the major types of animal cruelty case including large scale scenes Generate a thorough forensic science response to each major type of animal cruelty case Synthesize a comprehensive forensic report and accompanying expert testimony to support an animal cruelty investigation. Required Courses (12 credits)CJST 6621 - Animal Cruelty and Interpersonal ViolenceFORS 6607 - Animal Cruelty InvestigationFORS 6608 - Forensic Investigation of Animal CrueltyFORS 6695 - Independent Study Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
