 Feb 28, 2025 Electrical Engineering, M.S. Coordinator: Ali Golbazi, Ph.D. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering (MSEE) is designed to provide students and practicing engineers alike with a background in analysis, design, development, or research on electrical or computer engineering in a variety of technical areas. It enables students to expand and deepen their knowledge beyond the baccalaureate degree and gives them the ability to adapt to ever-changing technological developments. Students with adequate background in electrical or digital and computer systems can complete the MSEE degree by successfully completing a minimum of 30 credits of course and project work. Six additional waivable credits are assigned as bridge courses as needed. In such cases when these are assigned, students will be informed at the time of admission. Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of fundamental concepts for graduate study in electrical and computer engineering ​Demonstrate knowledge of advanced topics in electrical and computer engineering Apply design and analysis methods to solve emerging electrical and computer engineering problems Conduct research and/or comprehensive projects in electrical engineering Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
