 Feb 28, 2025 Environmental Science, M.S., Environmental Health and Management Concentration M.S. Environmental ScienceSTEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes Demonstrate knowledge of the interdisciplinary fields of environmental science. Use advanced technologies and the scientific method to address environmental problems. Communicate concepts from Environmental Science effectively. Critically analyze interdisciplinary environmental problems. Assess scientific literature utilizing available scientific information. A minimum of 38 - 40 credits must be completed to earn the master of science in environmental science degree. The transfer of credit earned at other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. The program consists of five required core courses, additional courses that may be taken in a specified area of concentration, and a capstone. Note that students who do not choose to concentrate in a particular area are required to follow a plan of study determined in consultation with the program coordinator. Required courses cover common areas in environmental science, while the electives and concentration requirements enable students to study in a particular area of interest or in subjects with direct application to their profession. Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. A thesis is recommended for students who wish to pursue doctoral training after graduation and for those with specific professional interests. For students who choose the thesis option, the selection of thesis courses is determined in consultation with the program coordinator and the thesis advisor, and includes ENVS 6698 - Thesis I and ENVS 6699 - Thesis II in lieu of other courses in the program. Students who do not pursue a thesis have the option of completing a one-semester research project or internship. Students should note that a number of courses in this program require weekend field trips, lab sessions, or acceptable alternatives. In addition, students should consult the program coordinator for advice on selection of appropriate courses and on assuring compliance with prerequisites.Core CoursesCIVL 6606 - Environmental Law and LegislationorMPMA 6602 - Marine and Coastal Law ENVS 6011 - Scientific Literature and Proposal WritingENVS 6600 - Environmental Geoscience with LaboratoryENVS 6601 - Ecological Applications in Environmental Science with LaboratoryENVS 6609 - Data Analysis in the Environmental and Biological SciencesConcentrationsStudents may elect to pursue one of the following concentrations for the elective portion of the program: Environmental Ecology, Environmental Geoscience, Environmental Health and Management, Geographical Information Systems and Applications, or Marine Biology. As students declare a concentration, they are assigned to the faculty advisor responsible for it, and the advisor helps the student formulate an individual program and the approved electives. Concentrations require a minimum of 21-23 credits in addition to the required core courses. If no concentration is pursued, students must consult with the program coordinator to determine the appropriate 21-23 credits that must be taken in addition to the required core courses.Capstone RequirementDepending upon their track, students will choose from the following capstone project options: Internship Track: ENVS 6692 - Internship Non-Thesis Track: ENVS 6690 - Research Project Thesis Track: ENVS 6698 and ENVS 6699 - Thesis I and Thesis II Environmental Health and Management Required CoursesENVS 6610 - Environmental HealthCHEM 6601 - Environmental ChemistryPUBH 6615 - Principles of Epidemiology Select one of the following two courses:ENVS 6602 - Environmental Effects of PollutantsENVS 6653 - Environmental MicrobiologyEnvironmental Health and Management Elective CoursesCIVL 6611 - Air Pollution FundamentalsENVS 6607 - Environmental Reports and Impact AssessmentENVS 6640 - Introduction to Geographical Information SystemsFORS 6662 - Forensic ToxicologyPUBH 6625 - Biostatistical Applications in Public HealthENGL 6659 - Writing and Speaking for ProfessionalsENVS 6695 - Independent Study I Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
