 Feb 28, 2025 National Security, M.S., Defensive Cyber Intelligence Concentration This concentration provides a unique approach to the issue of cyberterrorism and cyber intelligence within national security agencies. Students will be prepared for the responsibilities of protecting agency or corporate information systems. The basics of cyber intelligence as well as the legal issues and cyber-response strategies are evaluated. Students learn through hands-on experience using industry software and practices. This program requires the completion of a minimum of 36 credits of graduate coursework. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Apply foundational knowledge of cyber security to contemporary cyber threats and cyber warfare. 7. Apply intelligence analysis tools to cyber defense. 8. Design intelligence and defensive policy solutions to contemporary cyber threats. Required Courses (18 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersNSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseNSEC 6650 - National Security Policy and StrategyNSEC 6680 - National Security Research MethodsNSEC 6693 - National Security InternshiporNSEC 6697 - Thesis I andNSEC 6698 - Thesis II(If thesis option is selected, 3 credits will apply toward electives.)Concentration Courses (12 credits)Select four of the following courses:NSEC 6614 - Cyber Warfare and Electronic EspionageNSEC 6615 - Dark Web Intelligence AnalysisNSEC 6625 - Information Systems Threats, Attacks, and DefensesNSEC 6626 - Defending the Cyber EnterpriseNSEC 6627 - Internet InvestigationsNSEC 6629 - Practical Issues in CryptographyRestricted Electives (6 credits)Six credits of restricted electives from any graduate, 6000-level NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI, or DSCI course. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
