 Feb 28, 2025 Forensic Investigative Genetic Genealogy Certificate The online graduate certificate in Forensic Investigative Genetic Genealogy (FIGG) provides individuals in either the public or private sector with the foundational concepts and application of both genetic genealogy and traditional genealogy to forensic investigations. This can include but is not limited to criminal, civil, and family history investigations. The fundamentals of forensic biology and forensic DNA analysis will be included to provide the student with the principles, applications, and interpretation of biological evidence as it relates to forensic investigations. The principles of genetic genealogy will be explored to provide an understanding of the various DNA testing methods available for use in genetic genealogy investigations. Genealogical Research methods in the form of documentary evidence will provide the student with a strong foundation in the Genealogy Standards used in genealogical research to obtain valid results. Investigation techniques and ethical concepts will be included throughout the certificate program. The certificate program will culminate in the student undertaking a FIGG practicum through the completion of a full mock FIGG case. All courses are online and offered in 4 sequential mini-terms (i.e., 7 weeks). Program Outcomes: By the end of this program, students will be able to: Evaluate current practices within the fields of forensic biology and forensic DNA profiling. Assess current genetic genealogy methods for use with forensic biological evidence. Conclude investigation findings will appropriate documentary evidence that adhere to the Genealogy Standards. Demonstrate, at a professional level, applied genetic genealogy skills in a mock FIGG case investigation. Required Courses (12 credits)FORS 6600 - Fundamentals of Forensic Biological EvidenceorFORS 6604 - Forensic DNA Phenotyping: Appearance and Ancestry FORS 6601 - Forensic Genetic GenealogyFORS 6602 - Genealogy Principles and MethodsFORS 6603 - FIGG Practicum Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
