 Feb 28, 2025 Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse, M.S. The Master of Science in Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Investigations was a collaboration with public and private sector groups involved with the deterrence, detection, and investigation of healthcare fraud in the U.S. healthcare system. The annual estimate of healthcare FWA was a staggering $120 billion prior to the Covid-19 pandemic and is expected to exceed $800 billion during the course of the pandemic. The public and private sectors are looking for qualified individuals in this field. 30 credit hours NOTE: This program is offered in an online format only. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: The student will be able to describe the steps necessary for a thorough investigation. The student will be able to identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. The student will be able to define the legal requirements for investigations. The student will be able to critique an investigation. Required Courses (24 credits)INVS 6635 - Healthcare Fraud InvestigationsINVS 6637 - Anatomy of Healthcare FraudINVS 6638 - Electronic Files and Healthcare FraudINVS 6643 - Healthcare Fraud AnalyticsINVS 6663 - Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Trends and SchemesINVS 6664 - Fraud, Waste, and Abuse in the U.S. Healthcare Delivery SystemINVS 6665 - Healthcare Fraud, Waste, and Abuse and Compliance FailuresINVS 6667 - Fraud Waste and Abuse Interview/Interrogation, Testifying, and Report Writing (Capstone Course)Elective Courses (6 credits) Two free electives (six credits total) Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
