 Feb 28, 2025 Investigations, M.S., Criminal Investigations Concentration Investigation is a broad interdisciplinary field in which students learn how to identify, collect, and analyze evidence in civil and criminal cases. The program includes thee concentrations: criminal investigations, financial crimes investigations, and digital forensic investigations. Each concentration focuses on a specific area of specialized investigations and is designed to prepare students for investigative careers in one of the areas of specialization. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 30 credits of graduate work, which includes a required capstone requirement. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: Know the steps necessary for a thorough investigation. Identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. Know the legal requirements for investigations. Critique an investigation. Conduct an investigative interview. Obtain entry level employment in Investigations related areas of employment. Required Courses (15 credits)INVS 6631 - Investigations IINVS 6651 - Criminal ProcedureINVS 6607 - Supervising and Managing the Investigative Unit and ProcessINVS 6614 - Survey of Forensic ScienceINVS 6690 - Contemporary Topics in InvestigationsConcentration in Criminal Investigations (15 credits)INVS 6632 - Advanced Investigation IINVS 6633 - Advanced Investigation IIPlus three additional electives (9 credits) approved by the advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
