 Feb 28, 2025 This concentration is designed to provide students the ability to explore and combine aspects of the theoretical foundations of both national security and public administration, and provide students with the core skills and knowledge necessary to be a successful professional engaged in public service. Students will develop a working knowledge of the most prominent features of the global security construct with an emphasis on the United States' national security enterprise and key global states, concerns, and concepts. The concentration accommodates the needs of students new to the field as well as those already working in public service, and will prepare students to successfully lead a public organization. Students will increase their practical knowledge and gain the skills necessary to take on challenging assignments in public service related to national security. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Critically examine the evolution of United States national security and defense policy. 7. Apply public administration concepts to the national security domain. 8. Formulate potential policy solutions to address contemporary national security threats and objectives. 9. Devise policy solutions to support national security agencies and principal decision-makers. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
