 Feb 28, 2025 Biomedical Engineering, M.S. Coordinator: Kagya Amoako, Assistant Professor, PhD., University of Michigan STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The master of science in biomedical engineering prepares students for positions in biomedical engineering and continued education in biomedical engineering. It addresses the improvement of human health through a multi-disciplinary approach, where integration of concepts from engineering and mathematics with those in the life sciences provide directed technologies for the advancement of health care. Students enrolled in the program will address unmet medical needs using knowledge of engineering, biology, chemistry, mathematics, etc. They will take measurements on and interpret data from living systems, address the problems associated with the interaction between living and non-living materials and systems, work on team projects, and communicate their work orally and in writing. Graduates of this program will be able to evaluate biomedical engineering literature to identify, analyze, and assess a medical need, design solutions to these problems using multidisciplinary approach, and manage biomedical engineering projects. Program Outcomes Apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering to biomedical engineering problems. Use the biomedical engineering literature to identify, analyze, and evaluate a medical need, and propose viable solutions. Communicate theory and research pertaining to biomedical engineering through both oral and written means. Interpret data from living systems, addressing the problems associated with the interaction between living and non-living materials and systems. A minimum of 30 credits must be completed to earn the master of science degree in biomedical engineering, including a substantial project as outlined below. Admission Policy Applicants to the master of science in biomedical engineering program must have earned or are close to earning a Bachelor's degree in engineering, physics, biology, chemistry, or a related field. GPA requirement: Admission will usually require a 3.0 grade point average on a 4.0 scale. This is a guideline and is not a strict requirement. Transcripts: Applicants will submit an official transcript displaying the seal of the institution and signed by the registrar. Letters of recommendation: No more than three letters of recommendations are required. Students must submit only three letters written by those best suited to comment on the student's academic and/or research skills. Personal Statement: Students must submit a personal statement about their background including life experiences, why they want to pursue a master's degree in biomedical engineering, and what are their personal aspirations and career goals. TOEFL/IELTS: A minimum overall score of 75 internet-based format TOEFL score or a minimum overall score of 6 internet-based-format IELTS. Applicants who have earned or will earn a Bachelor's degree will be exempt from submitting a TOEFL/IELTS score if the degree was earned from an institution where the language of instruction is English. GRE: The GRE is NOT required for the master's program. Before enrolling, students are generally required to have completed undergraduate courses in cell biology, human anatomy and physiology, biochemistry, calculus I, II, and III, differential equations, a course in basic electronic circuits, two courses in either mechanics, fluid mechanics, dynamics or thermodynamics, and introductory level programming. Applicants with strong academic or professional experience but without the necessary background for enrolling in some of the required courses may be asked to complete additional courses. Required Courses (18 credits)BIOL 6605 - BiostatisticsBIOM 6601 - Biomedical Engineering SeminarBIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersBIOM 6630 - Biosensors and Instrumentation with LaboratoryINDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsMECH 6602 - Mechanical Engineering AnalysisElective Courses (12-13 credits)Choose four courses from the list belowBIOM 6615 - Biomaterials II: Design and Applications of BiomaterialsBIOM 6620 - Tissue EngineeringBIOM 6635 - BioanalyticsBIOM 6640 - Biomedical OpticsBIOM 6650 - Medical Imaging SystemsBIOM 6690 - Research ProjectBIOM 6693 - Biomedical Engineering InternshipBIOM 6697 - Thesis IBIOM 6698 - Thesis IICMBI 6617 - Cell Culture Techniques with LaboratoryCMBI 6636 - ImmunologyELEC 6634 - Digital Signal Processing IELEC 6635 - Digital Signal Processing IIELEC 6653 - Digital Image ProcessingMECH 6605 - Finite Element Methods in EngineeringMECH 6630 - Advanced Fluid MechanicsMECH 6645 - Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat TransferPHYS 6620 - Introduction to NanobiotechnologyProject RequirementEach student must complete a substantial project. There are three different ways to satisfy the project requirement (credits from a project course will count as elective credit): 1. Project through a project-based course (this course will count as an elective either with biomaterials, medical imaging, or with biomechanics content). In this option, a student would complete a substantial and extensive amount of work, as would be required in options 2 and 3 below. If a student does not complete project requirement in the course, they will need to enroll in BIOM 6690 and complete the project requirement in BIOM 6690. A student will be completing 3 credits whether they complete the project requirement during the project-based course or through BIOM 6690. This option offers a student the advantage of working on a project in a chosen focus area under the guidance of faculty in that specialty. Listed below are the set of special project-based courses from which a student will make a selection. BIOM 6615 - Biomaterials II: Design and Applications of Biomaterials BIOM 6620 - Tissue Engineering BIOM 6650 - Medical Imaging Systems ELEC 6653 - Digital Image Processing 2. BIOM 6690 Research Project (this course will count as an elective). Student must find an advisor, prepare a project proposal and obtain written approval for the project prior to registration. This option offers an advantage to students who may choose to explore areas outside the curriculum. 3. BIOM 6697 Thesis I and BIOM 6697 Thesis II (these courses will count as electives with biomaterials, imaging, or biomechanics content). Students who plan to complete a thesis should find a thesis advisor in their first or second semester, prepare a thesis proposal, and obtain written approval for the thesis prior to registration. For the thesis option, both BIOM 6697 and BIOM 6698 must be completed. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
