 Feb 28, 2025 Fire and Explosion Investigation, M.S. The master's degree in Fire and Explosion Investigation is offered to the men and women entering the field of fire investigation in both private and public sectors as well as to experienced investigators seeking advanced education in this field. The program focuses on the need to understand the dynamics of fire, the chemistry of explosions, the systematic process of fire and explosion investigations and reconstruction, as well as the requisite knowledge of expert testimony. Candidates are required to complete forty credits of graduate work, which may include an internship in fire science. Twenty-two credits are dedicated to the core fire and explosion courses while the remaining eighteen credits are fulfilled by restricted electives. Students must complete either FIRE 6690 - Research Project or FIRE 6693 - Internship. Program Outcomes At the end of the program, students will be able to: use the scientific method to determine the origin and cause of a fire. Evaluate fire load, fire development and burn patterns to determine the intensity and progression of the fire and the impact of fire code deficiencies. effectively communicate in writing their finding and have them submitted for evaluation, approval and implementation. determine if a fire was accidental, natural, incendiary in nature or must be considered undetermined. identify hazardous materials or other safety hazards and the appropriate course of mitigation necessary to render a fire scene reasonably safe to investigate. coordinate and manage a fire and explosion investigation team and coordinate all activities with related public and private sector agencies. Required Courses (22 credits):FIRE 6625 - Chemistry of Fires and ExplosionsFIRE 6669 - Dynamics, Evaluation, and Prevention of Structural FiresINVS 6614 - Survey of Forensic ScienceFIRE 6649 - Fire Scene Investigation and Arson AnalysisFIRE 6650 - Arson for ProfitFIRE 6665 - Legal Aspects of Fire and Arson Investigation FIRE 6690 - Research ProjectorFIRE 6693 - InternshipRestricted Electives (18 credits):Select 18 credits from the following restricted electives. Other restricted electives require written consent of the program director.FIRE 6661 - Systems Approach to Fire SafetyFIRE 6663 - Fire Protection Systems ApplicationFIRE 6664 - TerrorismFIRE 6666 - Industrial Fire ProtectionFIRE 6667 - Fire and Building Codes, Standards, and PracticesFIRE 6668 - Fire Casualty Insurance PracticesFIRE 6684 - Fire Scene Reconstruction Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
