 Feb 28, 2025 Business Intelligence Certificate Advisor: Ahmet Ozkul, Ph.D., Clemson University The certificate in business intelligence is designed to provide students with the practical skills and theoretical knowledge essential for modern-day firms' increasing reliance on business intelligence. Business intelligence as a discipline consists of a variety of business processes for data, information and knowledge management, and a wide range of analytical tools for performing analyses of qualitative and quantitative data. The ultimate goal is to deploy data-driven, evidence-based thinking in the service of strategic and tactical business decisions. Numerous companies, especially those engaged in global markets - routinely leverage data to optimize operations and for strategic decision making. Companies understand that the efficient use of the data available within and outside of an enterprise can be the single most important reason for its success. Government agencies have also increasingly adopted business intelligence practices to more efficiently discharge their regulatory and administrative functions. Graduates will be positioned for any number of jobs including: business intelligence developers, knowledge managers, strategic analysts, solution designers, managers, administrators, data warehouse managers, and forecasting and planning analysts. Four courses (12 credits) are required. Required Courses MGMT 6625 - Knowledge ManagementPlus two of the following: MKTG 6627 - Database MarketingMKTG 6629 - Social Media Marketing Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
