 Feb 28, 2025 Engineering and Operations Management, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science degree in engineering and operations management provides students with the knowledge, skills, and the tool set required to assume supervisory, managerial, and leadership positions in production, manufacturing, and service organizations. The program is a balanced mix of theoretical concepts and highly practical approaches to dealing with the day-to-day issues, tasks, and activities on the job. Created for individuals who aspire to be involved in managing operations and organizations, this program melds state-of-the-art engineering methodologies combined with state-of-the-art software with key components of business-related topics such as project and risk management, finance and economic analysis, marketing, data, and supply chain analytics. Students in this program receive excellent exposure to real-world engineering and operations management practices through instruction by industry experts and professionals in the field. The program places heavy emphasis on project-based learning, giving students the opportunity to network with other professionals and gain real-world practice in the classroom. Internships in the program typically lead to full-time jobs at both large and small organizations, as demand is high and the number of engineering management graduates is limited. Program Outcomes Through the completion of this program, students will be able to: Manage projects and teams using advanced tools and software Perform decision analysis tasks using analytical modeling and simulation tools Manage supply chains and production Contribute to financial decisions using various management tools and methods Conduct process improvement in various work settings Students must complete a minimum total of 30 graduate credits. MSEOM Program Placement For candidates holding a bachelor's degree in engineering or a related field, with a GPA of 3.0 or higher from an ABET-accredited program, the MSEOM can be earned by successfully completing 30 credits consisting of 21 credits of core courses and 9 credits of elective courses. Candidates not holding a bachelor's degree from an ABET-accredited program and candidates holding a bachelor's degree from an ABET accredited program but with inadequate preparation in foundational areas would be required to complete up to an additional 6 credits of foundational courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Required non-foundation courses cannot be waived, but transfer credit and substitutions may apply. See the University transfer credit policy for more information. Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)EGRM 6609 - Applied Statistics for Quality and Engineering ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisCore Courses (21 credits)EGRM 6604 - Concepts of Engineering and Quality ManagementorEGRM 6605 - Computing and Modeling for Engineering Management EGRM 6611 - Decision Making Under UncertaintyEGRM 6613 - Organizational Change and DevelopmentEGRM 6615 - Applied Marketing for Engineers and Operations Managers EGRM 6630 - Project ManagementorINDE 6630 - Project and Risk Management EGRM 6640 - Lean Six SigmaEGRM 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementEGRM 6681 - Simulation Techniques and ApplicationsEGRM 6684 - Laboratory-EGRM 6681Electives (9 credits)Select 3 elective courses. The remaining credits beyond the required courses may be taken from the courses listed below or other closely related disciplines with the approval of the MSEOM program coordinator. The following is a partial listing of elective courses which may change as the program evolves:EGRM 6617 - Engineering Economics and Cost EstimatingEGRM 6627 - Value Engineering and DesignEGRM 6645 - Data AnalyticsINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6632 - Introduction to Systems Thinking and Systems EngineeringINDE 6634 - Systems Engineering in the Project Life CycleINDE 6643 - Reliability and MaintainabilityINDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsResearch ProjectThe project requirement of the program is met through EGRM 6681, a required project course. Students who wish to go beyond the minimum graduation requirement of the Research Project within a course may elect to undertake an additional 3 credits of EGRM 6690 Research Project, working on a topic of interest with a faculty advisor. Projects involving scenarios from an industrial or corporate setting are encouraged. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
