 Feb 28, 2025 Advanced Materials Certificate With the development of modern computational science and materials synthesis and characterization experimental methods, materials research and development in industry has expanded dramatically. This program is designed for students who hope to pursue a career in materials industry, such as the industrial sectors of metals, glass, semiconductors, ceramics, and polymer materials. Students will study computational chemistry skills for simulating and analyzing materials and gain knowledge of experimental materials methods in chemical analysis, solid-state chemistry, or polymer materials. The certificate program is available for students with a BS degree in physical sciences, engineering, or medical sciences who hope to acquire specialized knowledge and skills relevant to the materials industry. Program Outcomes The expected program outcomes for students include an ability to: 1. Analyze the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental and theoretical chemistry methods in advanced materials, 2. Apply the basic computational methods and skills for molecular or materials simulations, 3. Effectively communicate the knowledge in oral presentations. Required Courses (3 credits)CHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryElectives (9 credits)Every student is required to complete at least 9 credits of the following elective courses. A student without background courses in Organic Chemistry or Physical Chemistry may need to take additional undergraduate courses.BIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCHEM 6645 - Solid-State ChemistryCSCI 6604 - Introduction to Programming/C Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
