 Feb 28, 2025 Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: Develop a plan to identify ethical practices within an organization. Analyze a public policy or issue using real world data. Explain how political influences impact public decision making. Explain how political influences impact budgetary decision making. Develop strategies for resolving labor-management conflicts. Concentration Specific Outcome - Fire & Emergency Medical Services Concentration: Analyze critical fire and emergency medical services issues using a public administration framework. Most students will then elect one of the above concentrations, each of which requires students to complete a combination of courses totaling 9 credits. Students can elect to complete the degree without a concentration area, in which case they may choose, in consultation with their advisor, three additional elective courses comprising 9 credits.Concentration in Fire and Emergency Medical ServicesThe Fire and Emergency Medical Services concentration prepares students to apply public administration principles to the administration and management of fire and emergency medical services organizations. There are three required electives:FIRE 6631 - Organization and Management of Fire and Emergency Medical ServicesFIRE 6632 - Strategic Planning for Public Safety LeadersFIRE 6633 - Issues in Public Safety Professional Responsibility Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
