 Feb 28, 2025 Coordinator: Nadiye O. Erdil, Associate Professor, Ph.D., Binghamton University The program is intended for students with undergraduate engineering or technical degrees from programs accredited by ABET Inc., or demonstrated equivalent. Students entering this program are expected to be competent in mathematics through calculus. Those with insufficient mathematics background are required to take approved mathematics courses (e.g., MATH 6610 - Fundamentals of Calculus) outside/in addition to the program requirements. Applicants with degrees in fields other than industrial engineering are required to take a number of undergraduate courses, or otherwise demonstrate proficiency in areas normally included in an undergraduate industrial engineering program. Applicants are required to meet the requirements outlined in the admissions policy sections of each relevant degree program. The M.B.A./M.S.I.E. program consists of 71.5 credits. Up to 10.5 of these credits may be waived on the basis of undergraduate course work, leaving a minimum requirement of 61 credits. Any waivers of course work from the M.B.A. side of the curriculum must meet the waiver guidelines of the M.B.A. program. Waivers must be approved in writing by the appropriate department and are contingent upon subsequent academic performance. Graduate credit may be transferred from other accredited institutions subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Project/Thesis Requirement Students in the dual degree program must complete the business administration capstone course MGMT 6669 - Strategic Management. In addition, they must complete an industrial engineering special project or thesis within the elective portion of the program. The special project requirement may be satisfied by taking a project course in a group setting, when offered. A designated area of study may be indicated for each industrial engineering project course; the instructor will offer direction and assist students in the development of substantial individual projects. Particular requirements or prerequisites may be set for the course. With special approval, a student may take an individual research project courses or write a thesis (as listed in the catalog). Business Foundation Courses (waivable)The three business foundation courses (4.5 credits) may be waived by students who meet the waiver guidelines established within the M.B.A. program. ACCT 6619 - Accounting FoundationsECON 6633 - Economics for ManagersFINC 6601 - Introduction to FinanceBusiness Core Courses (not waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial AccountingBANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsECON 6644 - Managing in a Global EconomyFINC 6602 - Corporate FinanceMGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingMGMT 6668 - Leading Organizational Strategy and ChangeMGMT 6669 - Strategic ManagementMKTG 6610 - Marketing Analysis and Customer ValuePlus six credits of approved graduate elective coursesIndustrial Engineering Foundation Courses (6 credits - waivable)INDE 6607 - Probability TheoryINDE 6609 - Descriptive and Inferential StatisticsIndustrial Engineering Core Courses (30 credits)INDE 6605 - Computing and Modeling in Industrial EngineeringINDE 6620 - Optimization and ApplicationsINDE 6624 - Quality AnalysisINDE 6641 - Supply Chain ManagementINDE 6655 - Manufacturing AnalysisINDE 6681 - System SimulationINDE 6684 - Laboratory-INDE 6681INDE 6688 - Design of ExperimentsPlus nine credits of approved INDE or EGRM elective courses Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
