 Feb 28, 2025 Cyber Risk Management, M.S. The M.S. Cyber Risk Management program develops participants' skills and competencies in the rapidly growing field of cybersecurity management and leadership. To lead a cybersecurity function in today's contemporary organizations, individuals must be well versed in leadership, business strategy, and risk management. They also must be able to function as a member of executive teams that address strategic issues accross the entire organization. The program is tailored to persons in IT, or other domains, that want to move up or transition into a leadership role, such as CISO, CIO, and CTO. Program Outcomes Upon completion of the program the student will be able to: Explain the relationship between cybersecurity and your organization's strategic goals. Develop a plan using risk mitigation tools and techniques to lessen the impact of a cybersecurity incident. Develop an integrated plan to ensure cyber risk management in support of business continuity. Develop solutions for networking and security problems that balance business concerns, technical issues, and security. This program requires completion of the following: Required Courses (30 credits)MGMT 6663 - Leadership and Team BuildingMGMT 6657 - Risk ManagementMGMT 6805 - Global Perspectives on Cybersecurity OperationsMGMT 6810 - Cybersecurity Incident Detection and ResponseMGMT 6815 - Strategic Management and Governance of Information AssetsMGMT 6820 - Incident and Critical Event CommunicationMGMT 6825 - Contemporary Issues in CybersecurityMGMT 6668 - Leading Organizational Strategy and ChangeMGMT 6830 - Cybersecurity Strategic Planning CapstoneMGMT 6647 - Network Security and Operations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
