 Feb 28, 2025 Coordinator: Christy D. Smith, Ph.D. The M.B.A./M.P.A. dual degree program is designed for those whose interests or career objectives are focused on both the public and private sectors of the economy. The program broadly stresses the use of management skills and analytic techniques applied to business, industrial, governmental, and not-for-profit organizations. The M.B.A./M.P.A. program consists of 68.5 credits. Up to 7.5 credits may be waived on the basis of undergraduate course work or work in public administration settings, leaving a minimum requirement of 61 credits. Waivers must be approved in writing by the appropriate department and are conditional upon subsequent academic performance. Graduate credit may be transferred from other accredited institutions subject to the graduate policy on transfer credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog. Project/Thesis Requirement Students choose one of two alternatives for completion of the final six credits of course work in the M.B.A./M.P.A. dual degree curriculum. Most students take the two capstone/research project courses PADM 6690 - Research Seminar and MGMT 6669 - Strategic Management . Alternatively, students may elect to take the two-course, six-credit thesis option (Thesis I and II). If the thesis option is selected, the thesis must show ability to organize material in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific department requirements. Note: Thesis I and II are not permitted as substitutions for MGMT 6669. If the thesis option is selected, MGMT 6669 must still be completed as the capstone course for the M.B.A. program. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
