 Feb 28, 2025 Industrial/Organizational Psychology, M.A., Industrial-Human Resources Psychology Concentration M.A. Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram Goals 1. Students will master theory and techniques related to core areas of industrial-organizational psychology including talent identification and development, work motivation, training, human capital practices, organization and group behavior. 2. Students will learn how to employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities such as internships, practicum projects, case studies, and applied research projects. 3. Students will conduct applied organizational research and accurately interpret research used to make business decisions. A total of 42 credits is required of candidates for the master of arts degree in industrial/organizational psychology. Candidates for this degree must complete 24 credits of basic program requirements. Another 18 credits (including concentrations, program options, and electives) are chosen after consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student's academic and professional goals. Students may not complete more than nine credits of electives until they have satisfied the basic requirements. Up to nine credits of electives may be taken in other departments, such as industrial engineering, economics, management, marketing, business analytics and public administration. Transfer Credit The transfer of credit from other institutions is permitted subject to the graduate policy on transfer of credit detailed elsewhere in this catalog Thesis Students may elect to write a thesis as part of the program of study. The thesis must show ability to organize materials in a clear and original manner and to present well-reasoned conclusions. Thesis preparation and submission must comply with the graduate policy on theses as well as specific departmental requirements. Program Options Students have the opportunity to develop a program that meets their particular needs and interests by choosing from many elective courses and various program options. These options include a thesis, for those interested in future pursuit of a doctoral degree; an internship, for those interested in a practical introduction to an organizational environment; or a practicum, for those already employed. Option 1 (Thesis) is intended primarily for those who are interested in continuing their education in doctoral-level programs. This option gives students the research experience necessary to be successful in pursuit of admission to and completion of a Ph.D. program. Option 2 (Internship/Practicum) allows the student to acquire special skills by coordinating formal course work with an internship or practicum in an organizational setting. The internship gives the student with limited work experience opportunity to work in cooperating organizations or consulting firms. The practicum experience is for the student who is currently employed. The content of the practicum or internship is established jointly by the cooperating organization, the program coordinator, and the student. A comprehensive project report is required in which the student analyzes and integrates internship/practicum experiences with relevant research and coursework. Option 3 (Approved Electives) consists of elective courses selected under faculty advisement. The choice of electives is intended to provide the student with a broad interdisciplinary background, complementing the student's own academic training and interests. A comprehensive examination covering material from the required psychology courses is required under this option. Program Concentrations Within each program option described above, students may concentrate in industrial-human resources, organizational development, conflict management, or talent analytics. A concentration requires 12 credits of electives, which are counted as part of the 18 credits required in the elective option (Thesis, Internship/Practicum, or Approved Electives) selected by the student. If a concentration is selected, the student must notify the program coordinator as well as the Registrar. A concentration is not required if the student's educational or career goals can best be met without this specialization. Program Outcomes By the end of this program, students will be able to: 1) Apply core industrial-organization psychology models, practices and techniques to understand and solve IO- related Psychology problems. 2) Employ the knowledge gained through their classes to the workplace through supervised experiential learning opportunities. 3) Employ statistical and research methods to conduct applied organizational research that can be accurately interpreted and used to make business decisions. Required Courses (24 credits)ECON 6625 - Industrial RelationsorPSYC 6626 - Worker Well-Being PSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological Science *PSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6619 - Organizational BehaviorPSYC 6620 - Industrial PsychologyPSYC 6635 - Psychological Tests and Measurements in OrganizationsPSYC 6645 - Seminar in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyPSYC 6660 - Contemporary Issues in Industrial/Organizational PsychologyProgram option** (18 credits)Option 1 (Thesis)PSYC 6698 - Thesis IPSYC 6699 - Thesis IIElectives ** (12 credits)Option 2 (Internship/Practicum)PSYC 6693 - Organizational Internship IPSYC 6694 - Organizational Internship IIorPSYC 6678 - Practicum I Electives ** (15 credits)Option 3 (Approved Electives) Comprehensive examination required Electives ** (18 credits) Note(s):*Undergraduate preparation in statistics is prerequisite. **Chosen in consultation with the program coordinator in light of the student’s academic and professional goals.Concentration in Industrial-Human Resources PsychologyThese 12 required concentration credits count toward the program option selected:PSYC 6641 - Training and Development in OrganizationsPSYC 6644 - Performance Management ProcessesPlus two of the following: MGMT 6645 - Management of Human ResourcesPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6628 - The InterviewPSYC 6640 - Workplace Motivation and Attitudes Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
