 Feb 28, 2025 National Security, M.S., National Security Data Analytics Concentration This concentration is designed to provide students with the fundamental skills necessary to analyze large scale data within the domain of national security. Students will learn programming syntax, data structures, and basic programming concepts. The concentration will also cover the use of Python in analyzing data, automating tasks, and solving problems relevant to national security such as threat intelligence, cybersecurity, and geospatial analysis. PROGRAM OUTCOMES: 1. Apply foundational knowledge of national security to contemporary global/local security challenges. 2. Evaluate national security threats at both domestic and international levels. 3. Develop policy responses to cyber threats that undermine critical information infrastructure. 4. Apply national security concepts to real-world scenarios. 5. Design policy solutions to contemporary national security problems. 6. Employ computer programming languages to prepare data for national security analysis. 7. Apply the data analytical methods and social network analysis software to the domain of national security. 8. Interpret the results of data analysis regarding issues of national security. 9. Create interactive dashboards and visualizations by using data relevant to national security. Required Courses (18 credits)NSEC 6601 - National Security Architecture, Mission, and TheoryNSEC 6603 - National Security Charter, Legal Issues, and Executive OrdersNSEC 6604 - Introduction to Intelligence and Cyber DefenseNSEC 6650 - National Security Policy and StrategyNSEC 6680 - National Security Research MethodsNSEC 6693 - National Security InternshiporNSEC 6697 - Thesis I andNSEC 6698 - Thesis II(If thesis option is selected, 3 credits will apply toward electives.)Concentration Courses (12 credits)NSEC 6681 - Applications of Data Analysis for National SecurityNSEC 6682 - Applications of Predictive Modeling for National SecurityNSEC 6683 - Introduction to Social Network AnalysisNSEC 6684 - Applications of Data Visualization for National SecurityRestricted Electives (6 credits)Six credits of restricted electives from any graduate, 6000-level NSEC, PADM, CJST, INVS, EMGT, CSCI, or DSCI course. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
