 Feb 28, 2025 Human Resources, M.S., Organizational Leadership Concentration The Master of Science in Human Resources is designed to prepare professionals to advance their careers in the field of human resources. The program emphasizes the strategic role that human resources plays in the achievement of a firm's competitive strategy, while providing students with the knowledge and skills needed to be effective human resource leaders. Specific focus will be on the emerging set of human resource competencies and skills needed to navigate the evolving human resources field including globalization, diversity and inclusion, corporate social responsibility, and strategic leadership. Students will examine each of the major human resources functional areas including recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits, performance management, employee relations, change management, and learning and development. Students will also learn about key human resource processes, human resource analytics, and the set of skills needed to be a strategic business partner with an organization's business lines and other enabling functions. This program requires 36 graduate credits: 21 credits from core courses, 12 credits from one of three concentrations, and 3 credits from a restricted elective. Program Outcomes: By the end of the program students will be able to: 1. Exhibit sophisticated knowledge of HR/business management practices that lead to professional HR career-related success. 2. Employ strategic thinking necessary to be an effective business partner. 3. Demonstrate reasoning leading to ethical, legal and socially responsible decision-making. 4. Demonstrate compelling oral and written communication capabilities. (For the Talent Management Concentration) 5. Create plans to recruit, hire, train, retain, and motivate a diverse and global workforce. (For the Organizational Leadership Concentration) 5. Demonstrate interaction skills in working effectively with others and change management skills in such a way as to be influential in a leadership capacity. (For the Employee Relations Concentration) 5. Effectively utilize and apply conflict intervention and negotiation strategies in the management and resolution of workplace disputes. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
