 Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Community Research and Evaluation Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Community Research and EvaluationThe community research and evaluation concentration prepares students for careers in research labs or organizations and/or who are thinking of going on to a doctoral program and a possible career in university teaching and research. Students have the option, in consultation with a faculty advisor, of completing either a thesis or two research projects. Both these options represent an integrative piece of significant independent scholarship. The thesis will be larger in scope, more formal, and more rigorous than the projects, and it must involve a well-developed and systematically conducted research study. The projects may also be a piece of research, though narrower in scope and more focused than a thesis (e.g., a pilot study or a program evaluation); they may also involve the development, implementation and evaluation of an action-oriented intervention.PSYC 6604 - Qualitative Research Methods Plus either thesis option (6 credits) or research project option (6 credits): PSYC 6695 - Individual Intensive Study IandPSYC 6696 - Individual Intensive Study II -or- PSYC 6698 - Thesis IandPSYC 6699 - Thesis II Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
