 Feb 28, 2025 Business Analytics, M.S., Global Supply Chain Analytics (STEM) Concentration M.S. Business Analytics Required Courses (21 credits)STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Business Analytics program integrates knowledge of business domains with extensive knowledge of data management, machine learning, predictive analytics, and data visualization. The broad and intensive curriculum across a range of business disciplines features the latest analytics methods of translating data into relevant information for decision-makers. The program emphasizes business data as a valuable asset and shows methods to turn data into actionable insights to enhance operational efficiency, customer value, and profitability. The program uses a hands-on approach with applications in traditional business areas as well as Internet enabled new mediums. Description of Concentrations There are four concentrations in the MS Business Analytics Program: General Global Supply Chain Analytics Marketing Analytics Hospitality and Service Analytics Program Outcomes 1.1: Rationalize the use of appropriate data sources for a specific operational function and/or research question. 1.2: Prepare data from public and commercial data sources in order to address specific operational questions. 2.1: Develop a testable research question that addresses a business/organizational need. 2.2: Implement domain studies using predictive analytic techniques to enhance decision making for an organization. 3.1: Formulate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical format online. 3.2: Integrate business insights found through analytics techniques in a non-technical visual format. There are concentration specific outcomes: Global Supply Chain Analytics: Appraise the efficiency of a supply chain for quality improvement. Develop decision-making metrics for supply chain management. Marketing Analytics : Develop an analytics algorithm to evaluate a particular marketing question relevant to the student's capstone project. Evaluate the efficiency of the analytics algorithm used as part of the student's capstone project. Hospitality and Service Analytics: Evaluate hospitality and service opportunities using analytical tools. This program requires 30 graduate credits, including 21 core credits plus 9 concentration credits.BANL 6100 - Business AnalyticsBANL 6101 - Lab BANL 6100BANL 6310 - Data Visualization and CommunicationBANL 6430 - Database Management for Business AnalyticsBANL 6600 - Power BI and DashboardingBANL 6625 - Data Mining for Business IntelligenceECON 6635 - Business Forecasting Capstone Experience:BANL 6900 - Business Analytics Capstoneor (with permission of Program Coordinator)BANL 6693 - Business Analytics InternshipGlobal Supply Chain Analytics Concentration (9 credits)BANL 6500 - Global Supply Chain ManagementBANL 6525 - Global Procurement ManagementBANL 6550 - Managing Quality in the Supply ChainBANL 6614 - Decisions in Operations ManagementBANL 6630 - Global Logistics and Distribution ManagementBUSA 6598 - Business Internship Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
