 Feb 28, 2025 Nutrition Sciences, M.S. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php The Master of Science in Nutrition Sciences program integrates the supervised experiential learning as well as the graduate level didactic learning together into one program meeting all competencies established by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Upon successful completion and conferral of the degree, a Verification Statement from the Director will be given authorizing eligibility to sit for the national registration exam administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR), the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Successful passage of this exam confers the title Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). Program Outcomes: Applies knowledge of medical terminology when communicating with individuals, groups and other health professionals. Applies an understanding of anatomy, physiology, and biochemistry. Applies knowledge of pharmacology to recommend, prescribe and administer medical nutrition therapy. Applies knowledge of nutritional health promotion and disease prevention for individuals, groups and populations. Utilizes the nutrition care process with individuals, groups or populations in a variety of practice settings. Demonstrates leadership skills to guide practice. Applies scientific methods utilizing ethical research practices when reviewing, evaluating and conducting research. Applies current research and evidence-informed practice to services. Integrates the principles of cultural competence within own practice and when directing services. Required Courses (52 credits)NUTR 6604 - Vitamin and Mineral Metabolism and BiochemistryNUTR 6609 - Research Methodology and Evidence Based PracticeNUTR 6610 - Nutrition and DiseaseNUTR 6612 - Nutrition and Health: Contemporary IssuesNUTR 6620 - Nutrition Through the LifecycleNUTR 6621 - Lifecycle SELNUTR 6625 - Food ScienceNUTR 6626 - Food Science LaboratoryNUTR 6628 - Therapeutic CookingNUTR 6630 - Food Systems ManagementNUTR 6631 - Food Systems Management SELNUTR 6634 - Nutritional PharmacologyNUTR 6640 - Community NutritionNUTR 6641 - Community Nutrition SELNUTR 6642 - Nutrition Care Process and Physical AssessmentNUTR 6643 - Clinical Nutrition SELNUTR 6644 - Nutrition CounselingNUTR 6645 - Culminating Rotation SELNUTR 6690 - Nutrition Science Capstone ProjectHCAD 6603 - Financial Management of Healthcare Organizations Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
