 Feb 28, 2025 Drug Discovery Chemistry Certificate With the development of modern computational chemistry and experimental chemistry methods, the drug discovery process in industry has expanded dramatically. This program is designed for students who hope to pursue a career in the pharmaceutical or healthcare industries. Students will study computational chemistry skills for simulating and analyzing drug molecules and biomolecules and gain knowledge about experimental methods of chemical analysis, medicinal chemistry, or biomedical polymers. The certificate program is available for students with a BS degree in physical sciences, engineering, life sciences, and health sciences who hope to acquire specialized knowledge and skills relevant to the pharmaceutical or healthcare industry. Program Outcomes The expected program outcomes for students include an ability to: 1. Analyze the fundamental concepts and techniques of experimental and theoretical chemistry methods in drug discovery chemistry. 2. Apply the basic computational methods and skills for molecular simulations. 3. Effectively communicate the knowledge in oral presentations. Required Courses (3 credits)CHEM 6710 - Computational ChemistryElectives (9 credits)Every student is required to complete at least 9 credits of the following elective courses. A student without background courses in Organic Chemistry or Physical Chemistry may need to take additional undergraduate courses.BIOM 6610 - Biomedical PolymersCHEM 6635 - Chromatography and Separation ScienceCHEM 6650 - Medicinal Chemistry ICHEM 6655 - Pharmacology Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
