 Feb 28, 2025 Physician Associate, M.M.S. Program Outcomes: Apply principles of basic and clinical science, including anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, and genetics to identify, diagnose, and provide patient centered care to healthy and ill patients. Recognize the risk factors and epidemiology of commonly presenting disease. Select, interpret, and apply diagnostic studies to inform clinical decision making. Formulate pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments plans including counseling and patient education for both healthy and ill patients. Demonstrate ability to establish rapport with patients. Effectively communicate information to patients, peers, and members of the health care team. Demonstrate empathy, honesty, and compassion to provide patient-centered care. Maintain respectful working relationships with all members of the health care team. Conduct problem-focused and comprehensive examinatons that includes the patient-centric gathering of information. Convey patient information to all members of the health care team in an accurate and efficient manner in verbal and written formats. Provide counseling to patients from diverse backgrounds to support them in the shared decision-making process. Perform skills and procedures essential to entry into the Physician Associate profession. Approach the provision of health care with a person-centered focus. Provide team-based care that demonstrates respect for patient autonomy, rights to informed consent, confidentiality, and respect. Demonstrate personal accountability, devotion to self-appraisal, and commitment to life-long learning. Provide patient centered care that incorporates patient cultural belief and practices with respect to societal and psychosocial aspects of the patient. Consider fiscal impact, patient safety, and resource allocation in the provision of care. Analyze practice performance and participate in quality assurance and improvement efforts. Explain how regulatory policies and laws govern the profession. Work collaboratively in team-based care to optimize patient-centered care. Synthesize information acquired through patient encounters and medical literature to develop appropriate differential diagnoses and management plans for acute, chronic, and emergent health conditions. Interpret data collected via patient examination, laboratory and diagnostic studies, procedures, and imaging studies to accurately diagnose chronic, acute, and emergent medical conditions. Formulate a treatment plan incorporating appropriate pharmaceutical, non-pharmaceutical, patient education, and appropriate therapeutic interventions in the prevention and treatment of chronic, acute, and emergent conditions. Integrate understanding of cultural, socioeconomic, environmental, and other population level impacts on health into medical decision-making and the development of individualized care plans. Demonstrate accumulation of medical knowledge appropriate for entry into the Physician Associate profession. Required Courses (98 credits)PHAS 6000 - Applied Medical SciencePHAS 6001 - Clinical Anatomy and PhysiologyPHAS 6010 - Diagnostic Methods IPHAS 6011 - Diagnostic Methods IIPHAS 6012 - Diagnostic Methods IIIPHAS 6020 - Professional IssuesPHAS 6021 - Systems Based PracticePHAS 6022 - Person Centered CarePHAS 6030 - Clinical Assessment IPHAS 6031 - Clinical Assessment IIPHAS 6032 - Clinical Assessment IIIPHAS 6040 - Clinical Medicine IPHAS 6041 - Clinical Medicine IIPHAS 6042 - Clinical Medicine IIIPHAS 6050 - Pharmacology IPHAS 6051 - Pharmacology IIPHAS 6052 - Pharmacology IIIPHAS 6060 - Specialty MedicinePHAS 6065 - Evidence Based MedicinePHAS 6071 - Family/Ambulatory MedicinePHAS 6072 - Pediatric MedicinePHAS 6073 - Women's HealthPHAS 6074 - Internal MedicinePHAS 6075 - Behavioral MedicinePHAS 6076 - Surgical MedicinePHAS 6077 - Emergency MedicinePHAS 6078 - Elective PracticumPHAS 6800 - Physician Associate Competencies IPHAS 6801 - Physician Associate Competencies IIPHAS 6802 - Physician Associate Competencies IIIPHAS 6810 - Integrating Seminar IPHAS 6811 - Integrating Seminar IIPHAS 6888 - Capstone Seminar Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
