 Feb 28, 2025 The Doctor of Health Sciences (DHSc) program prepares professionals to be effective leaders and change agents in a variety of settings in which healthcare is taught or practiced. The program offers innovative curriculum in a flexible, online format with two short residencies to best meet student needs. Courses are facilitated by experienced faculty through an interdisciplinary and interprofessional approach. Coursework prepares students to critically analyze ongoing challenges in the health sciences, with a focus on one of two select concentrations: healthcare leadership or educational leadership. The program builds competencies to evaluate, plan, and implement solutions to these challenges in academe and clinical settings. The DHSc degree leads to a career in high-level administration, teaching, and applied research or practice, where advanced analytical and conceptual capabilities are essential to advance careers to top executive and academic appointments. Program Outcomes Upon completion of the Doctor of Health Sciences program, graduates will able to: Apply advanced knowledge in health sciences systems thinking, scholarship, pedagogy, and evidence-based practice. Develop an evidence based, innovative solution for a contemporary issue in healthcare. Demonstrate advanced communication skills by disseminating research findings to targeted audiences. Explain how Interprofessional Education (IPE) and Interprofessional Collaboration (IPC) relate to each other and why IPC is important in healthcare practice. The Doctor of Health Sciences program requires 45 credits of courses. Students must earn a term GPA of at least 3.00 to maintain matriculation in the program. Student who earn a term GPA of less than 3.00 will be terminated from the program. Additionally, course grades below B- will need to be repeated. Because of the online nature of the DHSc program, international students on the F-1 visa will not be allowed to enroll in this program. The use of B-2, ESTA, VWP, or other temporary visitors' visas for the required in-person residencies is not possible because these visas do not permit study toward degree attainment. Required Courses (45 credits)HLTH 7701 - Academia for Health ProfessionalsHLTH 7705 - Qualitative Research and Analysis for Health ProfessionalsHLTH 7706 - Quantitative Research and Analysis for Health ProfessionalsHLTH 7707 - Foundations of Scholarly Inquiry and Professional Writing in Health SciencesHLTH 7790 - Doctoral Thesis Proposal Writing and DefenseHLTH 7791 - Doctoral Thesis Data Collection and AnalysisHLTH 7792 - Doctoral Thesis Writing, Dissemination, and DefensePlus 12 additional credits in Healthcare Leadership or Educational Leadership concentration (select one concentration): Education Leadership required courses:HLTH 7710 - Principles and Theories of Teaching and Learning in Health SciencesHLTH 7711 - Curriculum Design and Development in Health SciencesHLTH 7712 - Curriculum Assessment and Evaluation in Health SciencesHLTH 7713 - Evidence-based Leadership in Health Sciences Education or Healthcare Leadership required courses:HLTH 7720 - Change Management in Healthcare OrganizationsHLTH 7721 - Quality Improvement in Healthcare OrganizationsHLTH 7722 - Population Health Management for Healthcare LeadersHLTH 7723 - Health Informatics for Healthcare Leaders Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
