 Feb 28, 2025 Emergency Management, M.S. This graduate program is designed to develop emergency management and related professionals grounded in emergency management principles, social and natural science knowledge, administrative and managerial skills, and technical and personal competencies. The program will contribute to the professionalization of the emergency management community and help cultivate a culture of preparedness and prevention through developing skills to build community capacity to solve problems in emergency situations. 36 credit hours PROGRAM OUTCOMES: The student will be able to research an emergency management topic and present his/her findings in a concise and clear document. The student shall be able to describe the effects of social and cultural issues on emergency planning and the special types of emergency planning that might be needed to address same. The student will be able to describe the various FEMA disaster programs, what their components are and what areas of disaster recovery they are applicable to. In addition the student will be able to describe the Hazard Mitigation grant program. The student will be able to identify and discuss the ethical issues related to emergency management such as: evacuation planning, emergency response, and emergency recovery actions. The student will be able to identify and use new and emerging technologies to improve emergency management capabilities. The student will be able to describe how non-government and private sector entities need to become partners in public sector emergency planning The student will be able to demonstrate using a FEMA model plan to develop a local emergency operation plan. In addition be able to describe the difference between annexes and emergency support functions. Required Courses: (24 credits) EMGT 6601 - Principles of Emergency ManagementEMGT 6602 - Principles and Practices of Hazard MitigationEMGT 6603 - Catastrophe Readiness and ResponseEMGT 6604 - Holistic Disaster Recovery: Creating a More Sustainable FutureEMGT 6624 - Social Dimensions of DisasterEMGT 6628 - Emergency Incident Management EMGT 6697 - Emergency Management Thesis Proposal and Research andEMGT 6698 - Emergency Management Thesis Writing and DefenseorEMGT 6690 - Emergency Management Research Project andFIRE 6632 - Strategic Planning for Public Safety LeadersElective Courses: (12 credits)Students should contact their advisor to select the proper courses to fulfill this requirement. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
