 Feb 28, 2025 Computer Science, M.S. Graduate Coordinator: Barun Chandra, Ph.D. STEM Designation: This program is STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math)-designated by the Department of Homeland Security. For more information, please see https://www.newhaven.edu/admissions/stem-designated-programs.php Program Outcomes 1. Develop a large software project, one that is well designed, complete, functions properly, and is presented appropriately. 2. Understand one aspect of modern computer systems in greater depth: networks, operating systems, parallel architectures or databases. 3. Student has mastered the methods and algorithms of one area of computer theory work independently. 4. Explain the current developments and concerns related to at least two subareas of computer Science. Students with an adequate background in computer science will complete a minimum of 30 credits of course work consisting of 9 credits of distribution courses, and 21 credits of elective courses. In addition, within these 30 credits of course work, students must satisfy a project requirement and a programming language requirement. Based on students' prior academic backgrounds, students may be required to complete up to an additional 18 credits of prerequisite core courses. Students will be notified about any additional coursework requirements at the time of admission. Students may need to complete up to 18 additional credits of core courses, in addition to the 30 other credits; at the time of admission, students will be notified which courses have been waived for them and which need to be completed by them after joining the program. Students are expected to complete the core courses as soon as possible after joining the program. Students who choose to enroll at the institution accept these prerequisite coursework requirements as a condition of their admission. Required non-core courses cannot be waived, but transfer credit and substitutions may apply. See the University transfer credit policy for more information. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
