 Feb 28, 2025 Accounting, M.S., Taxation Track Concentration Coordinator: James N. Mohs, D.B.A.; Michael J. Rolleri, M.B.A., C.P.A. The objective of the Master of Science in Accounting program is to provide an in-depth framework for artificial intelligence (AI)/analytics, corporate, forensic, and taxation accounting inquiry, devised in structure and content from the entire scope and process of accounting-information-based economic decision-making. The existence of such a framework is intended to provide graduate accountants and professional practitioners with an opportunity to share in the development and assessment of issues of accounting interest within a decision-making context. Additionally, the Master of Science in Accounting program is designed to provide non-accountants and practitioners with the accounting credits requisite for certification. M.S. Accounting Required Courses (24 credits)Program Objectives: Our graduates will be a. Practicing in various professional accounting fields. b. Eligible to sit for the CPA exam. c. Advancing their careers in the fields they choose. Program Learning Goals: Graduates of our MS program should be able to demonstrate: 1. Understanding of fundamental accounting concepts and analytical and technical knowledge. 2. An integrative perspective to current accounting trends and techniques. 3. Ethical reasoning ability. 4. Effective communication skills. 5. Appreciation of and exposure to an array of Corporate, Forensic and Tax Accounting concepts. Program Outcomes: 1.1 Students will demonstrate familiarity with the fundamental concepts and knowledge in their concentration areas of Corporate, Forensic, Tax, or Accounting Analytics. 1.2 Students will be able to apply knowledge from 1.1 toward analysis and analyze data using technology and information systems and using appropriate quantitative and analytical techniques. 2.1 Students will able to integrate knowledge from functional Accounting areas and formulate solutions that consider both the internal and the external environments of an organization. 2.2 Students will be able to analyze the effects of business transactions using Accounting fundamentals. 3.1 Students will able to demonstrate an understanding of social responsibility in accounting and its effects on stakeholders. 3.2 Students will able to demonstrate the ability to apply a variety of ethical principles within the Accounting practice. 4.1 Students will be able create well written documents related to Accounting topics. 5.1 Students will recognize and explain how different Accounting sub-disciplines interrelate. Accounting Analytics Concentration 6. Effectively engage in inquiry using prediction and classification algorithms (Accounting Analytics Concentration specific) 6.1 Students will analyze data to answer a research question. 6.2 Students will effectively communicate the results of a data analytics inquiry in non-technical terms. The degree is comprised of 36-39 credits, of which 7.5 credits (ACCT 6620 , ACCT 6621 , and ACCT 6619 ) are prerequisites and may be waived. Waivers for any prerequisite course require departmental approval. The corporate, forensic, and taxation concentrations require a total of 36 degree credits (30 if prerequisite courses are satisfied). The Accounting Analytics concentration requires a total of 39 degree credits (33 if prerequisite courses are satisfied), but is also STEM compliant. Students may choose only ONE concentration within the M.S. Accounting program. All students complete a basic core of courses including:ACCT 6620 - Financial Accounting for Managers (waivable)ACCT 6621 - Managerial Accounting (waivable)ACCT 6630 - Current Topics in Financial AccountingACCT 6631 - Advanced Financial AccountingACCT 6650 - Advanced Accounting TheoryACCT 6652 - Auditing and Assurance Services SeminarACCT 6654 - Financial Statements: Reporting and AnalysisACCT 6695 - Independent Study I (Capstone Course; ACCT 6615 is required for Taxation Concentration)Concentration in Taxation Track (12 credits)Students who concentrate in the Taxation Track will complete the following additional courses (substitutions require departmental approval):ACCT 6601 - Fundamentals of Federal Income TaxationACCT 6602 - Taxation of Property TransactionsACCT 6604 - Taxation of Corporations and ShareholdersACCT 6605 - Partnership and Limited Liability Company Income Taxation Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
