 Feb 28, 2025 Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes Investigations, M.S. The Master of Science in Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes Investigations combines the expertise of the investigations program with leading experts in cyber threat intelligence and financial crimes investigations. The program integrates the legal and prosecution issues and cyber intelligence analytics with the investigative processes for investigating associated financial crimes; following the money (or in today's world, the crypto assets). This program requires the completion of 30 credit hours. Program Outcomes By completing this program, students will: 1. Evaluate cyber threats to identify the typology. 2. Identify correct investigative tools and information sources used in investigations. 3. Analyze the legal requirements for investigations. 4. Critique an investigation. Required Courses (21 credits)INVS 6600 - Computer Crime: Legal Issues and Investigation ProceduresINVS 6619 - Topics in Intelligence AnalyticsINVS 6631 - Investigations IINVS 6652 - Network Security, Data Protection, and TelecommunicationsINVS 6653 - Internet Vulnerabilities and Criminal ActivityINVS 6704 - Cyber Threat Intelligence and Financial Crimes InvestigationsINVS 6705 - Applied Methods of Cyber Intelligence and Financial Crimes InvestigationsRestricted Electives (6 credits)Choose 6 graduate credits of INVS courses in consultation with your advisor.Elective (3 credits)Choose 3 graduate credits from any discipline in consultation with your advisor. Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
