 Feb 28, 2025 Community Psychology, M.A., Community Mental Health Concentration M.A. Community PsychologyCommunity psychology focuses on solutions to human problems in a wide variety of settings, by developing theory, research and practice to enhance the functioning of individuals, families, groups, institutions, and entire communities. This program consists of 36 credits, 21 of which compose the core curriculum completed by all students (including two semesters of fieldwork - the program's capstone project), and 9 of which constitute an area of concentration. The remaining 6 credits are electives. Program Outcomes 1. Students will successfully conduct applied social research relevant to community psychology. 2. Students successfully apply major theoretical concepts in the core community psychology curriculum. 3. Students demonstrate, at a professional level, applied intervention skills in an internship setting relevant to their concentration.Required CoursesPSYC 6605 - Foundations of Community PsychologyPSYC 6608 - Statistics for Psychological SciencePSYC 6609 - Research MethodsPSYC 6610 - Program EvaluationPSYC 6614 - Intervention Fieldwork and SeminarPSYC 6615 - Consultation Fieldwork and SeminarSOCI 6602 - Social Inequalities in OrganizationsPlus two courses (6 credits) from the following prefixes: PSYC, COUN, SOCI, CJST, PADM, or PUBHConcentration in Community Mental HealthThe community mental health concentration prepares students for careers in community-based human service settings. Students will learn to prevent and address psychological problems, with an emphasis on interventions within social institutions, organizations and groups, as well as directly with individuals. Select three of the following courses:COUN 6625 - Life Span Human DevelopmentCOUN 6629 - Theories of CounselingCOUN 6636 - Diagnosis and Treatment of Mental Health DisordersCOUN 6639 - Addiction and Substance Abuse CounselingCOUN 6650 - Trauma and Crisis Intervention Catalog Search Choose Search Location Select an option Courses Programs Hierarchy Items Other Content Entire Catalog Whole Word/Phrase Advanced Search Catalog Home The University Graduate Programs Academic Policies Policies & Procedures for Ph.D. Degree Academic and Student Services College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Tagliatela College of Engineering Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences School of Health Sciences University Interdisciplinary Collaborative Programs Pending Regulatory Approval Course Descriptions Academic Calendar
